[Congressional Bills 116th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1790 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.1790

                     One Hundred Sixteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday,
           the third day of January, two thousand and nineteen


                                 An Act


 
To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
         strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2020''.
SEC. 2. ORGANIZATION OF ACT INTO DIVISIONS; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
    (a) Divisions.--This Act is organized into four divisions as 
follows:
        (1) Division A--Department of Defense Authorizations.
        (2) Division B--Military Construction Authorizations.
        (3) Division C--Department of Energy National Security 
    Authorizations and Other Authorizations.
        (4) Division D--Funding Tables.
        (5) Division E--Intelligence Authorizations for Fiscal Years 
    2018, 2019, and 2020.
        (6) Division F--Other Matters.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Organization of Act into divisions; table of contents.
Sec. 3. Congressional defense committees.
Sec. 4. Budgetary effects of this Act.

            DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATIONS

                          TITLE I--PROCUREMENT

               Subtitle A--Authorization Of Appropriations

Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.

                        Subtitle B--Army Programs

Sec. 111. Authority of the Secretary of the Army to waive certain 
          limitations related to the Distributed Common Ground System-
          Army Increment 1.

                        Subtitle C--Navy Programs

Sec. 121. Ford-class aircraft carrier cost limitation baselines.
Sec. 122. Modification of annual report on cost targets for certain 
          aircraft carriers.
Sec. 123. Refueling and complex overhauls of the U.S.S. John C. Stennis 
          and U.S.S. Harry S. Truman.
Sec. 124. Ford class aircraft carrier support for F-35C aircraft.
Sec. 125. Prohibition on use of funds for reduction of aircraft carrier 
          force structure.
Sec. 126. Modification of prohibition on availability of funds for Navy 
          waterborne security barriers.
Sec. 127. LHA Replacement Amphibious Assault Ship Program.
Sec. 128. Strategic sealift fleet vessel.
Sec. 129. Design and construction of amphibious transport dock 
          designated LPD-31.
Sec. 130. Limitation on availability of funds for the Littoral Combat 
          Ship.
Sec. 131. Limitation on the next new class of Navy large surface 
          combatants.
Sec. 132. Limitation on availability of funds pending quarterly updates 
          on the CH-53K King Stallion helicopter program.
Sec. 133. Limitation on availability of funds for VH-92A helicopter.
Sec. 134. Report on carrier wing and aviation combat element 
          composition.

                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

Sec. 141. Modification of requirement to preserve certain C-5 aircraft.
Sec. 142. OC-135B aircraft recapitalization program.
Sec. 143. Requirement to align Air Force aviation force structure with 
          National Defense Strategy.
Sec. 144. Prohibition on availability of funds for reduction in KC-10 
          primary mission aircraft inventory.
Sec. 145. Limitation on availability of funds for F-15EX aircraft.
Sec. 146. Limitation on availability of funds for VC-25B aircraft.
Sec. 147. Limitation on availability of funds for RC-26B aircraft.
Sec. 148. Limitation on availability of funds for retirement of RC-135 
          aircraft.
Sec. 149. Air Force aggressor squadron modernization.
Sec. 150. Air Force plan for Combat Rescue Helicopter fielding.
Sec. 151. Report on feasibility of multiyear contract for procurement of 
          JASSM-ER missiles.
Sec. 152. Report on aircraft fleet of the Civil Air Patrol.
Sec. 153. Sense of Congress on the light attack aircraft initiative of 
          the Air Force.

        Subtitle E--Defense-wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

Sec. 161. Economic order quantity contracting and buy-to-budget 
          acquisition for F-35 aircraft program.
Sec. 162. Relief from contractors for failure to deliver ready-for-issue 
          spare parts for the F-35 aircraft program.
Sec. 163. Limitation on availability of funds for reallocation of 
          Turkish F-35A aircraft to the United States.
Sec. 164. Requirement to establish the use of an Agile DevOps software 
          development solution as an alternative for Joint Strike 
          Fighter Autonomic Logistics Information System.
Sec. 165. F-35 sustainment cost.
Sec. 166. Reports on the progress and performance of the F-35 aircraft 
          program.
Sec. 167. Other reports on the F-35 aircraft program.
Sec. 168. Limitation on availability of funds for communications systems 
          lacking certain resiliency features.
Sec. 169. Repeal of tactical unmanned vehicle common data link 
          requirement.

          TITLE II--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.

     Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 211. Program on enhancement of preparation of dependents of members 
          of Armed Forces for careers in science, technology, 
          engineering, and mathematics.
Sec. 212. Updates to the Department of Defense personnel management 
          authority to attract experts in science and engineering.
Sec. 213. Establishment of joint reserve detachment of the Defense 
          Innovation Unit.
Sec. 214. Research and educational programs and activities for 
          Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Minority-
          Serving Institutions of Higher Education.
Sec. 215. Modification of authority for prizes for advanced technology 
          achievements.
Sec. 216. Joint hypersonics transition office.
Sec. 217. Modification of proof of concept commercialization program.
Sec. 218. Modification of authority and addition of technology areas for 
          expedited access to technical talent.
Sec. 219. Expansion of coordination in support of national security 
          innovation and entrepreneurial education.
Sec. 220. Modification of defense quantum information science and 
          technology research and development program.
Sec. 221. Understanding of investments in artificial intelligence and 
          development of capabilities by adversaries.
Sec. 222. Advisory role of JASON scientific advisory group.
Sec. 223. Direct Air Capture and Blue Carbon Removal Technology Program.
Sec. 224. Requiring defense microelectronics products and services meet 
          trusted supply chain and operational security standards.
Sec. 225. Development and acquisition strategy to procure secure, low 
          probability of detection data link network capability.
Sec. 226. Establishment of secure next-generation wireless network (5G) 
          infrastructure for the Nevada Test and Training Range and base 
          infrastructure.
Sec. 227. Administration of manufacturing innovation institutes funded 
          by the Department of Defense.
Sec. 228. Research program on foreign malign influence operations.
Sec. 229. Diversification of the research and engineering workforce of 
          the Department of Defense.
Sec. 230. Policy on the talent management of digital expertise and 
          software professionals.
Sec. 231. Digital engineering capability to automate testing and 
          evaluation.
Sec. 232. Process to align policy formulation and emerging technology 
          development.
Sec. 233. Improvement of the Strategic Capabilities Office of the 
          Department of Defense.
Sec. 234. Pilot program on enhanced civics education.
Sec. 235. Technology and national security fellowship.
Sec. 236. Documentation relating to the Advanced Battle Management 
          System.
Sec. 237. Sensor data integration for fifth generation aircraft.
Sec. 238. Sense of Congress on future vertical lift technologies.
Sec. 239. Use of funds for Strategic Environmental Research Program, 
          Environmental Security Technical Certification Program, and 
          Operational Energy Capability Improvement.
Sec. 240. Limitation and report on Indirect Fire Protection Capability 
          Increment 2 capability.

              Subtitle C--Plans, Reports, and Other Matters

Sec. 251. Master plan for implementation of authorities relating to 
          science and technology reinvention laboratories.
Sec. 252. Infrastructure to support research, development, test, and 
          evaluation missions.
Sec. 253. Energetics plan.
Sec. 254. Strategy and implementation plan for fifth generation 
          information and communications technologies.
Sec. 255. Department-wide software science and technology strategy.
Sec. 256. Artificial intelligence education strategy.
Sec. 257. Cyber science and technology activities roadmap and reports.
Sec. 258. Report on B-52 commercial engine replacement program.
Sec. 259. Commercial edge computing technologies and best practices for 
          Department of Defense warfighting systems.
Sec. 260. Biannual report on the Joint Artificial Intelligence Center.
Sec. 261. Quarterly updates on the Optionally Manned Fighting Vehicle 
          program.
Sec. 262. National Study on Defense Research At Historically Black 
          Colleges and Universities and Other Minority Institutions.
Sec. 263. Study on national security emerging biotechnologies for the 
          Department of Defense.
Sec. 264. Independent study on optimizing resources allocated to 
          Combating Terrorism Technical Support Office.
Sec. 265. Independent assessment of electronic warfare plans and 
          programs.
Sec. 266. Technical correction to Global Research Watch Program.

                  TITLE III--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 301. Authorization of appropriations.

                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

Sec. 311. Timeline for Clearinghouse review of applications for energy 
          projects that may have an adverse impact on military 
          operations and readiness.
Sec. 312. Authority to accept contributions of funds from applicants for 
          energy projects for mitigation of impacts on military 
          operations and readiness.
Sec. 313. Use of proceeds from sale of recyclable materials.
Sec. 314. Disposal of recyclable materials.
Sec. 315. Department of Defense improvement of previously conveyed 
          utility systems serving military installations.
Sec. 316. Modification of Department of Defense environmental 
          restoration authorities to include Federal Government 
          facilities used by National Guard.
Sec. 317. Use of operational energy cost savings of Department of 
          Defense.
Sec. 318. Sale of electricity from alternate energy and cogeneration 
          production facilities.
Sec. 319. Energy resilience programs and activities.
Sec. 320. Technical and grammatical corrections and repeal of obsolete 
          provisions relating to energy.
Sec. 321. Transfer authority for funding of study and assessment on 
          health implications of per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances 
          contamination in drinking water by Agency for Toxic Substances 
          and Disease Registry.
Sec. 322. Replacement of fluorinated aqueous film-forming foam with 
          fluorine-free fire-fighting agent.
Sec. 323. Prohibition of uncontrolled release of fluorinated aqueous 
          film-forming foam at military installations.
Sec. 324. Prohibition on use of fluorinated aqueous film forming foam 
          for training exercises.
Sec. 325. Real-time sound-monitoring at Navy installations where 
          tactical fighter aircraft operate.
Sec. 326. Development of extreme weather vulnerability and risk 
          assessment tool.
Sec. 327. Removal of barriers that discourage investments to increase 
          military installation resilience.
Sec. 328. Budgeting of Department of Defense relating to extreme 
          weather.
Sec. 329. Prohibition on Perfluoroalkyl Substances and Polyfluoroalkyl 
          Substances in Meals Ready-to-Eat Food Packaging.
Sec. 330. Disposal of materials containing per- and polyfluoroalkyl 
          substances or aqueous film-forming foam.
Sec. 331. Agreements to share monitoring data relating to perfluoroalkyl 
          and polyfluoroalkyl substances and other contaminants of 
          concern.
Sec. 332. Cooperative agreements with States to address contamination by 
          perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances.
Sec. 333. Plan to phase out use of burn pits.
Sec. 334. Information relating to locations of burn pit use.
Sec. 335. Data quality review of radium testing conducted at certain 
          locations of the Department of the Navy.
Sec. 336. Reimbursement of Environmental Protection Agency for certain 
          costs in connection with the Twin Cities Army Ammunition 
          Plant, Minnesota.
Sec. 337. Pilot program for availability of working-capital funds for 
          increased combat capability through energy optimization.
Sec. 338. Report on efforts to reduce high energy intensity at military 
          installations.

 Subtitle C--Treatment of Contaminated Water Near Military Installations

Sec. 341. Short title.
Sec. 342. Definitions.
Sec. 343. Provision of water uncontaminated with perfluorooctanoic acid 
          (PFOA) and perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) for agricultural 
          purposes.
Sec. 344. Acquisition of real property by Air Force.
Sec. 345. Remediation plan.

                  Subtitle D--Logistics and Sustainment

Sec. 351. Materiel readiness metrics and objectives.
Sec. 352. Clarification of authority regarding use of working-capital 
          funds for unspecified minor military construction projects 
          related to revitalization and recapitalization of defense 
          industrial base facilities.
Sec. 353. Modification to limitation on length of overseas forward 
          deployment of naval vessels.
Sec. 354. Extension of temporary installation reutilization authority 
          for arsenals, depots, and plants.
Sec. 355. F-35 Joint Strike Fighter sustainment.
Sec. 356. Report on strategic policy for prepositioned materiel and 
          equipment.
Sec. 357. Pilot program to train skilled technicians in critical 
          shipbuilding skills.
Sec. 358. Requirement for military department inter-service depot 
          maintenance.
Sec. 359. Strategy to improve infrastructure of certain depots of the 
          Department of Defense.

                           Subtitle E--Reports

Sec. 361. Readiness reporting.
Sec. 362. Technical correction to deadline for transition to Defense 
          Readiness Reporting System Strategic.
Sec. 363. Report on Navy ship depot maintenance budget.
Sec. 364. Report on Runit Dome.
Sec. 365. Prohibition on subjective upgrades by commanders of unit 
          ratings in monthly readiness reporting on military units.
Sec. 366. Requirement to include foreign language proficiency in 
          readiness reporting systems of Department of Defense.

                        Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 371. Prevention of encroachment on military training routes and 
          military operations areas.
Sec. 372. Expansion and enhancement of authorities on transfer and 
          adoption of military animals.
Sec. 373. Extension of authority for Secretary of Defense to use 
          Department of Defense reimbursement rate for transportation 
          services provided to certain non-Department of Defense 
          entities.
Sec. 374. Extension of authority of Secretary of Transportation to issue 
          non-premium aviation insurance.
Sec. 375. Defense personal property program.
Sec. 376. Public events about Red Hill Bulk Fuel Storage Facility.
Sec. 377. Sense of Congress regarding Innovative Readiness Training 
          program.
Sec. 378. Detonation chambers for explosive ordnance disposal.

               TITLE IV--MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS

                        Subtitle A--Active Forces

Sec. 401. End strengths for active forces.
Sec. 402. Revisions in permanent active duty end strength minimum 
          levels.

                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

Sec. 411. End strengths for Selected Reserve.
Sec. 412. End strengths for Reserves on active duty in support of the 
          reserves.
Sec. 413. End strengths for military technicians (dual status).
Sec. 414. Maximum number of reserve personnel authorized to be on active 
          duty for operational support.
Sec. 415. Authorized strengths for Marine Corps Reserves on active duty.
Sec. 416. Modification of authorized strength of Air Force Reserve 
          serving on full-time reserve component duty for administration 
          of the reserves or the National Guard.

               Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 421. Military personnel.

                   TITLE V--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

Sec. 501. Maker of original appointments in a regular or reserve 
          component of commissioned officers previously subject to 
          original appointment in other type of component.
Sec. 502. Furnishing of adverse information on officers to promotion 
          selection boards.
Sec. 503. Limitation on number of officers recommendable for promotion 
          by promotion selection boards.
Sec. 504. Expansion of authority for continuation on active duty of 
          officers in certain military specialties and career tracks.
Sec. 505. Management policies for joint qualified officers.
Sec. 506. Modification of authorities on management of deployments of 
          members of the Armed Forces and related unit operating and 
          personnel tempo matters.
Sec. 507. Personnel tempo of the Armed Forces and the United States 
          Special Operations Command during periods of inapplicability 
          of high-deployment limitations.
Sec. 508. Permanent authority to defer past age 64 the retirement of 
          chaplains in general and flag officer grades.
Sec. 509. Higher grade in retirement for officers following reopening of 
          determination or certification of retired grade.
Sec. 510. Authority of promotion boards to recommend that officers of 
          particular merit be placed higher on promotion list.
Sec. 510A. Availability on the internet of certain information about 
          officers serving in general or flag officer grades.
Sec. 510B. Functional badge or insignia upon commission for chaplains.

                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

Sec. 511. Modification of grade level threshold for Junior Reserve 
          Officers' Training Corps.
Sec. 512. Inclusion of STEM in courses of instruction for the Junior 
          Reserve Officers' Training Corps.
Sec. 513. Inclusion of homeschooled students in Junior Reserve Officers' 
          Training Corps units.
Sec. 514. Clarification of eligibility to serve as Commander, Marine 
          Forces Reserve.
Sec. 515. Extension and periodic evaluation of suicide prevention and 
          resilience program for the reserve components.
Sec. 516. Authority to defer mandatory separation at age 68 of officers 
          in medical specialties in the reserve components.
Sec. 517. Modernization of inspection authorities applicable to the 
          National Guard.
Sec. 518. Consultation with Chief of the National Guard Bureau in the 
          appointment or designation of National Guard property and 
          fiscal officers.
Sec. 519. Coast Guard Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps.
Sec. 520. Repeal of requirement for review of certain Army Reserve 
          officer unit vacancy promotions by commanders of associated 
          active duty units.
Sec. 520A. Report on methods to enhance domestic response to large 
          scale, complex and catastrophic disasters.
Sec. 520B. Report and briefing on the Senior Reserve Officers' Training 
          Corps.
Sec. 520C. Sense of Congress on increase in number of Junior Reserve 
          Officers' Training Corps units.

   Subtitle C--General Service Authorities and Correction of Military 
                                 Records

Sec. 521. Advice and counsel of trauma experts in review by boards for 
          correction of military records and discharge review boards of 
          certain claims.
Sec. 522. Reduction in required number of members of discharge review 
          boards.
Sec. 523. Establishment of process to review a request for upgrade of 
          discharge or dismissal.
Sec. 524. Prohibition on reduction in the number of personnel assigned 
          to duty with a service review agency.
Sec. 525. Training of members of boards for correction of military 
          records and discharge review boards on sexual trauma, intimate 
          partner violence, spousal abuse, and related matters.
Sec. 526. Time requirements for certification of honorable service.
Sec. 527. Correction of certain discharge characterizations.
Sec. 528. Development of guidelines for use of unofficial sources of 
          information to determine eligibility of members and former 
          members of the Armed Forces for decorations when the service 
          records are incomplete because of damage to the official 
          record.
Sec. 529. Strategic plan for diversity and inclusion.
Sec. 530. Study regarding screening individuals who seek to enlist in 
          the Armed Forces.
Sec. 530A. Feasibility study regarding notification to Secretary of 
          Homeland Security of honorable discharges of non-citizens.
Sec. 530B. Sense of Congress regarding accession physicals.

                      Subtitle D--Military Justice

Sec. 531. Expansion of pre-referral matters reviewable by military 
          judges and military magistrates in the interest of efficiency 
          in military justice.
Sec. 532. Command influence.
Sec. 533. Statute of limitations for certain offenses.
Sec. 534. Public access to dockets, filings, and court records of 
          courts-martial or other records of trial of the military 
          justice system.
Sec. 535. Extension of Defense Advisory Committee on Investigation, 
          Prosecution, and Defense of Sexual Assault in the Armed 
          Forces.
Sec. 536. Authority for return of personal property to victims of sexual 
          assault who file a Restricted Report before conclusion of 
          related proceedings.
Sec. 537. Guidelines on sentences for offenses committed under the 
          Uniform Code of Military Justice.
Sec. 538. Notification of significant events and documentation of 
          preference for prosecution jurisdiction for victims of sexual 
          assault.
Sec. 539. Increase in number of digital forensic examiners for certain 
          military criminal investigative organizations.
Sec. 540. Increase in investigative personnel and Victim Witness 
          Assistance Program liaisons.
Sec. 540A. Training for sexual assault initial disposition authorities 
          on exercise of disposition authority for sexual assault and 
          collateral offenses.
Sec. 540B. Training for commanders in the Armed Forces on their role in 
          all stages of military justice in connection with sexual 
          assault.
Sec. 540C. Timely disposition of nonprosecutable sex-related offenses.
Sec. 540D. Department of Defense-wide policy and military department-
          specific programs on reinvigoration of the prevention of 
          sexual assault involving members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 540E. Recommendations on separate punitive article in the Uniform 
          Code of Military Justice on sexual harassment.
Sec. 540F. Report on military justice system involving alternative 
          authority for determining whether to prefer or refer changes 
          for felony offenses under the Uniform Code of Military 
          Justice.
Sec. 540G. Report on standardization among the military departments in 
          collection and presentation of information on matters within 
          the military justice system.
Sec. 540H. Report on expansion of Air Force safe to report policy across 
          the Armed Forces.
Sec. 540I. Assessment of racial, ethnic, and gender disparities in the 
          military justice system.
Sec. 540J. Pilot programs on defense investigators in the military 
          justice system.
Sec. 540K. Report on preservation of recourse to restricted report on 
          sexual assault for victims of sexual assault following certain 
          victim or third-party communications.
Sec. 540L. Report on establishment of guardian ad litem program for 
          certain military dependents who are a victim or witness of an 
          offense under the Uniform Code of Military Justice involving 
          abuse or exploitation.
Sec. 540M. Comptroller General of the United States report on 
          implementation by the Armed Forces of recent statutory 
          requirements on sexual assault prevention and response in the 
          military.
Sec. 540N. Sense of Congress on the Port Chicago 50.

                     Subtitle E--Other Legal Matters

Sec. 541. Improvement of certain Special Victims' Counsel authorities.
Sec. 542. Availability of Special Victims' Counsel at military 
          installations.
Sec. 543. Notification of issuance of military protective order to 
          civilian law enforcement.
Sec. 544. Copyright protection for civilian faculty of certain 
          accredited institutions.
Sec. 545. Termination of leases of premises and motor vehicles of 
          servicemembers who incur catastrophic injury or illness or die 
          while in military service.
Sec. 546. Military orders required for termination of leases pursuant to 
          the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act.
Sec. 547. Preservation of right to bring class action under 
          Servicemembers Civil Relief Act.
Sec. 548. Legal counsel for victims of alleged domestic violence 
          offenses.
Sec. 549. Notice to victims of alleged sexual assault of pendency of 
          further administrative action following a determination not to 
          refer to trial by court-martial.
Sec. 550. Treatment of information in Catch a Serial Offender Program 
          for certain purposes.
Sec. 550A. Policies and procedures on registration at military 
          installations of civilian protective orders applicable to 
          members of the Armed Forces assigned to such installations and 
          certain other individuals.
Sec. 550B. Defense Advisory Committee for the Prevention of Sexual 
          Misconduct.
Sec. 550C. Training for Special Victims' Counsel on civilian criminal 
          justice matters in the States of the military installations to 
          which assigned.
Sec. 550D. Enhancing the capability of military criminal investigative 
          organizations to prevent and combat child sexual exploitation.
Sec. 550E. Feasibility study on establishment of database of military 
          protective orders.
Sec. 550F. GAO review of USERRA and SCRA.

                      Subtitle F--Member Education

Sec. 551. Authority for detail of certain enlisted members of the Armed 
          Forces as students at law schools.
Sec. 552. Inclusion of Coast Guard in Department of Defense STARBASE 
          Program.
Sec. 553. Degree granting authority for United States Army Armament 
          Graduate School; limitation on establishment of certain 
          educational institutions.
Sec. 554. Prohibition on off-duty employment for cadets and midshipmen 
          completing obligated service after graduation.
Sec. 555. Consideration of request for transfer of a cadet or midshipman 
          at a military service academy who is the victim of a sexual 
          assault or related offense.
Sec. 556. Redesignation of the Commandant of the United States Air Force 
          Institute of Technology as the Director and Chancellor of such 
          Institute.
Sec. 557. Eligibility of additional enlisted members for associate 
          degree programs of the Community College of the Air Force.
Sec. 558. Speech disorders of cadets and midshipmen.
Sec. 559. Requirement to continue provision of tuition assistance for 
          members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 560. Information on institutions of higher education participating 
          in the Department of Defense Tuition Assistance Program.
Sec. 560A. Inclusion of information on free credit monitoring in annual 
          financial literacy briefing.
Sec. 560B. Programs to facilitate the award of private pilot's 
          certificates.

               Subtitle G--Member Training and Transition

Sec. 561. Requirement to provide information regarding benefits claims 
          to members during TAP counseling.
Sec. 562. Participation of other Federal agencies in the SkillBridge 
          apprenticeship and internship program for members of the Armed 
          Forces.
Sec. 563. First modification of elements of report on the improved 
          Transition Assistance Program.
Sec. 564. Second modification of elements of report on the improved 
          Transition Assistance Program.
Sec. 565. Prohibition on gender-segregated training at Marine Corps 
          Recruit Depots.
Sec. 566. Assessment of deaths of recruits under the jurisdiction of the 
          Secretaries of the military departments.
Sec. 567. Review of Department of Defense training programs regarding 
          disinformation campaigns.
Sec. 568. Command matters in connection with transition assistance 
          programs.
Sec. 569. Machine readability and electronic transferability of 
          Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD Form 
          214).
Sec. 570. Records of service for Reserves.
Sec. 570A. Limitations and requirements in connection with separations 
          for members of the Armed Forces who suffer from mental health 
          conditions in connection with a sex-related, intimate partner 
          violence-related, or spousal-abuse offense.
Sec. 570B. Prohibition on involuntary separation of certain members of 
          the Armed Forces; consideration of military service in removal 
          determinations.
Sec. 570C. Inclusion of question regarding immigration status on 
          preseparation counseling checklist (DD Form 2648).
Sec. 570D. Counseling for members of the Armed Forces who are not 
          citizens of the United States on naturalization in the United 
          States.
Sec. 570E. Pilot program on information sharing between Department of 
          Defense and designated relatives and friends of members of the 
          Armed Forces regarding the experiences and challenges of 
          military service.
Sec. 570F. Connections of members retiring or separating from the Armed 
          Forces with community-based organizations and related 
          entities.
Sec. 570G. Pilot program regarding online application for the Transition 
          Assistance Program.

     Subtitle H--Military Family Readiness and Dependents' Education

Sec. 571. Authorizing members to take leave for a birth or adoption in 
          more than one increment.
Sec. 572. Deferred deployment for members who give birth.
Sec. 573. Authority of the Secretary concerned to transport remains of a 
          covered decedent to no more than two places selected by the 
          person designated to direct disposition of the remains.
Sec. 574. Military funeral honors matters.
Sec. 575. Improvement of occupational license portability for relocated 
          spouses of members of the uniformed services.
Sec. 576. Continued eligibility for education and training opportunities 
          for spouses of promoted members.
Sec. 577. Modification to authority to reimburse for State licensure and 
          certification costs of a spouse of a servicemember arising 
          from relocation.
Sec. 578. Clarification regarding eligibility to transfer entitlement 
          under Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Program.
Sec. 579. Annual State report card.
Sec. 580. Improvements to child care for members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 580A. Transportation of remains of casualties; travel expenses for 
          next of kin.
Sec. 580B. Meetings of officials of the Department of Defense with 
          representative groups of survivors of deceased members of the 
          Armed Forces.
Sec. 580C. Information and opportunities for registration for voting and 
          absentee ballot requests for members of the Armed Forces 
          undergoing deployment overseas.
Sec. 580D. Study on two-way military ballot barcode tracking.
Sec. 580E. Assistance to schools with military dependent students.
Sec. 580F. First expansion of the My Career Advancement Account program 
          for military spouses.
Sec. 580G. Second expansion of the My Career Advancement Account program 
          for military spouses.
Sec. 580H. Report on training and support available to military spouses.
Sec. 580I. Ri'katak Guest Student Program at United States Army 
          Garrison-Kwajalein Atoll.

                   Subtitle I--Decorations and Awards

Sec. 581. Modification of authorities on eligibility for and replacement 
          of gold star lapel buttons.
Sec. 582. Standardization of honorable service requirement for award of 
          military decorations.
Sec. 583. Authorization for award of the Medal of Honor to John J. Duffy 
          for acts of valor in Vietnam.
Sec. 584. Review of World War I valor medals.

           Subtitle J--Miscellaneous Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 591. Clarification of the term ``assault'' for purposes of 
          Workplace and Gender Relations Surveys.
Sec. 592. Inclusion of certain veterans on temporary disability or 
          permanent disabled retirement lists in military adaptive 
          sports programs.
Sec. 593. Questions in surveys regarding extremist activity in the 
          workplace.
Sec. 594. Study on best practices for providing financial literacy 
          education for separating members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 595. Report on oversight of authorized strengths of certain grades 
          of commissioned regular and reserve officers of the Armed 
          Forces.
Sec. 596. Report on certain waivers.
Sec. 597. Notifications on manning of afloat naval forces.
Sec. 598. Report regarding use of aerial systems of the Department of 
          Defense to support agencies of States, Territories, and the 
          Federal Government.
Sec. 599. Information for members of the Armed Forces on availability of 
          services of the Department of Veterans Affairs relating to 
          sexual trauma.
Sec. 599A. Authority to issue an honorary promotion to Colonel Charles 
          E. McGee, United States Air Force (ret.), to the grade of 
          brigadier general.
Sec. 599B. Authority to issue an honorary and posthumous promotion to 
          Lieutenant Colonel Richard Cole, United States Air Force 
          (ret.), to the grade of colonel.
Sec. 599C. Sense of Congress on the honorable and distinguished service 
          of General Joseph F. Dunford, United States Marine Corps, to 
          the United States.

                     TITLE VI--MILITARY COMPENSATION

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

Sec. 601. Clarification of continuation of pays during hospitalization 
          and rehabilitation resulting from wounds, injury, or illness 
          incurred while on duty in a hostile fire area or exposed to an 
          event of hostile fire or other hostile action.
Sec. 602. Continued entitlements while a member of the Armed Forces 
          participates in a career intermission program.
Sec. 603. Exemption from repayment of voluntary separation pay.
Sec. 604. Consideration of service on active duty to reduce age of 
          eligibility for retired pay for non-regular service.
Sec. 605. Temporary adjustment of rates of basic allowance for housing 
          following determination that local civilian housing costs 
          significantly differ from such rates.
Sec. 606. Reinvestment of travel refunds by the Department of Defense.
Sec. 607. Addition of partial dislocation allowance to allowable travel 
          and transportation expenses for servicemembers.
Sec. 608. Reductions on account of earnings from work performed while 
          entitled to an annuity supplement.
Sec. 609. Increase in basic pay.

             Subtitle B--Bonuses and Special Incentive Pays

Sec. 611. One-year extension of certain expiring bonus and special pay 
          authorities.

                Subtitle C--Family and Survivor Benefits

Sec. 621. Expansion of eligibility for exceptional transitional 
          compensation for dependents to dependents of current members.
Sec. 622. Phase-out of reduction of Survivor Benefit Plan survivor 
          annuities by amount of dependency and indemnity compensation.
Sec. 623. Death gratuity for ROTC graduates.
Sec. 624. Expansion of authority to provide financial assistance to 
          civilian providers of child care services or youth program 
          services who provide such services to survivors of members of 
          the Armed Forces who die in combat in the line of duty.
Sec. 625. Casualty assistance for survivors of deceased ROTC graduates.

                   Subtitle D--Defense Resale Matters

Sec. 631. Defense resale system matters.
Sec. 632. Procurement by commissary stores of certain locally sourced 
          products.
Sec. 633. GAO review of defense resale optimization study.

         Subtitle E--Morale, Welfare, and Recreation Privileges

Sec. 641. Extension of certain morale, welfare, and recreation 
          privileges to Foreign Service officers on mandatory home 
          leave.
Sec. 642. Extension of pilot program on a Government lodging program.

                  Subtitle F--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 651. Annual reports on approval of employment or compensation of 
          retired general or flag officers by foreign governments for 
          emoluments clause purposes.
Sec. 652. Report regarding transition from overseas housing allowance to 
          basic allowance for housing for servicemembers in the 
          territories.
Sec. 653. Report on extension to members of the reserve components of 
          the Armed Forces of special and incentive pays for members of 
          the Armed Forces not currently payable to members of the 
          reserve components.
Sec. 654. Study regarding recoupment of separation pay, special 
          separation benefits, and voluntary separation incentive 
          payments from members of the Armed Forces and veterans who 
          receive disability compensation under laws administered by the 
          Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 655. Report on implementation of contributions to the Department of 
          Defense Military Retirement Fund based on pay costs per Armed 
          Force rather than on Armed Forces-wide basis.
Sec. 656. Report on food insecurity among members of the Armed Forces 
          and their dependents.

                    TITLE VII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

           Subtitle A--TRICARE and Other Health Care Benefits

Sec. 701. Modification of eligibility for TRICARE Reserve Select for 
          certain members of the Selected Reserve.
Sec. 702. TRICARE payment options for retirees and their dependents.
Sec. 703. Lead level screening and testing for children.
Sec. 704. Exposure to open burn pits and toxic airborne chemicals or 
          other airborne contaminants as part of periodic health 
          assessments and other physical examinations.
Sec. 705. Enhancement of recordkeeping with respect to exposure by 
          members of the Armed Forces to certain occupational and 
          environmental hazards while deployed overseas.
Sec. 706. Modifications to post-deployment mental health assessments for 
          members of the Armed Forces deployed in support of a 
          contingency operation.
Sec. 707. Provision of blood testing for firefighters of Department of 
          Defense to determine exposure to perfluoroalkyl and 
          polyfluoroalkyl substances.

                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

Sec. 711. Modification of organization of military health system.
Sec. 712. Support by military health system of medical requirements of 
          combatant commands.
Sec. 713. Requirements for certain prescription drug labels.
Sec. 714. Officers authorized to command Army dental units.
Sec. 715. Improvements to interagency program office of the Department 
          of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 716. Expansion of strategy to improve acquisition of managed care 
          support contracts under TRICARE program.
Sec. 717. Inclusion of blast exposure history in medical records of 
          members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 718. Comprehensive policy for provision of mental health care to 
          members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 719. Limitation on the realignment or reduction of military medical 
          manning end strength.
Sec. 720. Strategy to recruit and retain mental health providers.
Sec. 721. Development of partnerships to improve combat casualty care 
          for personnel of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 722. Modification to referrals for mental health services.

                  Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 731. Authorization of claims by members of the uniformed services 
          against the United States for personal injury or death caused 
          by medical malpractice.
Sec. 732. Extension and clarification of authority for Joint Department 
          of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
          Demonstration Fund.
Sec. 733. Appointment of non-ex officio members of the Henry M. Jackson 
          Foundation for the Advancement of Military Medicine.
Sec. 734. Establishment of Academic Health System in National Capital 
          Region.
Sec. 735. Provision of veterinary services by veterinary professionals 
          of the Department of Defense in emergencies.
Sec. 736. Three-year extension of authority to continue the DOD-VA 
          Health Care Sharing Incentive Fund.
Sec. 737. Preservation of resources of the Army Medical Research and 
          Materiel Command and continuation as Center of Excellence.
Sec. 738. Encouragement of participation in Women's Health Transition 
          Training pilot program.
Sec. 739. National Guard suicide prevention pilot program.
Sec. 740. Pilot Program on civilian and military partnerships to enhance 
          interoperability and medical surge capability and capacity of 
          National Disaster Medical System.
Sec. 741. Reports on suicide among members of the Armed Forces and 
          suicide prevention programs and activities of the Department 
          of Defense.
Sec. 742. Modification of requirements for longitudinal medical study on 
          blast pressure exposure of members of the Armed Forces and 
          collection of exposure information.
Sec. 743. Study and plan on the use of military-civilian integrated 
          health delivery systems.
Sec. 744. Study on case management in the military health system.
Sec. 745. Report on Global Health Security Strategy and the National 
          Biodefense Security.
Sec. 746. Study on establishment of wounded warrior service dog program.
Sec. 747. GAO report on Department of Defense quality assurance program 
          and impacts of medical malpractice actions.
Sec. 748. Reports on Millennium Cohort Study relating to women members 
          of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 749. Study on effects of sleep deprivation on readiness of members 
          of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 750. Study and report on traumatic brain injury mitigation efforts.

  TITLE VIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                 MATTERS

              Subtitle A--Acquisition Policy and Management

Sec. 800. Authority for continuous integration and delivery of software 
          applications and upgrades to embedded systems.
Sec. 801. Pilot program on intellectual property evaluation for 
          acquisition programs.
Sec. 802. Pilot program to use alpha contracting teams for complex 
          requirements.
Sec. 803. Failure to provide other than certified cost or pricing data 
          upon request.
Sec. 804. Comptroller General report on price reasonableness.
Sec. 805. Limitation on transfer of funds related to cost overruns and 
          cost underruns.
Sec. 806. Standardizing data collection and reporting on use of source 
          selection procedures by Federal agencies.
Sec. 807. Department of Defense use of fixed-price contracts.
Sec. 808. Repeal of continuation of data rights during challenges.
Sec. 809. Repeal of authority to waive acquisition laws to acquire vital 
          national security capabilities.
Sec. 810. Repeal of the Defense Cost Accounting Standards Board.

 Subtitle B--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                             and Limitations

Sec. 815. Modification of Director of Operational Test and Evaluation 
          report.
Sec. 816. Modification of written approval requirement for task and 
          delivery order single contract awards.
Sec. 817. Responsibility for data analysis and requirements validation 
          for services contracts.
Sec. 818. Documentation of market research related to commercial item 
          determinations.
Sec. 819. Availability of data on the use of other transaction authority 
          and report on the use of authority to carry out prototype 
          projects.
Sec. 820. Notification of Navy procurement production disruptions.
Sec. 821. Modification to acquisition authority of the Commander of the 
          United States Cyber Command.
Sec. 822. Extension of Never Contract With the Enemy.
Sec. 823. Modification of justification and approval requirement for 
          certain Department of Defense contracts.
Sec. 824. Extension of sunset relating to Federal Data Center 
          Consolidation Initiative.
Sec. 825. Pilot program to accelerate contracting and pricing processes.
Sec. 826. Uniformity in application of micro-purchase threshold to 
          certain task or delivery orders.
Sec. 827. Requirement for cost estimates on models of commercial e-
          commerce portal program.

  Subtitle C--Provisions Relating to Major Defense Acquisition Programs

Sec. 830. Modification of requirements for reporting to Congress on 
          certain acquisition programs.
Sec. 831. Pilot program to streamline decision-making processes for 
          weapon systems.
Sec. 832. Analysis of alternatives pursuant to materiel development 
          decisions.
Sec. 833. Naval vessel certification required before Milestone B 
          approval.

        Subtitle D--Provisions Relating to the Acquisition System

Sec. 835. Extramural acquisition innovation and research activities.
Sec. 836. Report on realignment of the defense acquisition system to 
          implement acquisition reforms.
Sec. 837. Report and limitation on the availability of funds relating to 
          the ``middle tier'' of acquisition programs.
Sec. 838. Report on intellectual property policy and the cadre of 
          intellectual property experts.
Sec. 839. Guidance and reports relating to covered defense business 
          systems.
Sec. 840. Implementation guidance for use of a modular open system 
          approach.
Sec. 841. Limitation on availability of funds for the Office of the 
          Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense.

                   Subtitle E--Industrial Base Matters

Sec. 845. Modernization of acquisition processes to ensure integrity of 
          industrial base.
Sec. 846. Report requirements for the national technology and industrial 
          base.
Sec. 847. Mitigating risks related to foreign ownership, control, or 
          influence of Department of Defense contractors or 
          subcontractors.
Sec. 848. Prohibition on operation or procurement of foreign-made 
          unmanned aircraft systems.
Sec. 849. Modification of prohibition on acquisition of sensitive 
          materials from non-allied foreign nations.
Sec. 850. Acquisition and disposal of certain rare earth materials.
Sec. 851. Pilot program for development of technology-enhanced 
          capabilities with partnership intermediaries.
Sec. 852. Authorized official to carry out the procurement technical 
          assistance cooperative agreement program.
Sec. 853. Requirement that certain ship components be manufactured in 
          the national technology and industrial base.
Sec. 854. Addition of domestically produced stainless steel flatware and 
          dinnerware to the Berry Amendment.
Sec. 855. Application of miscellaneous technology base policies and 
          programs to the Columbia-class submarine program.
Sec. 856. Application of limitation on procurement of goods other than 
          United States goods to the FFG-Frigate Program.
Sec. 857. Sense of Congress regarding consideration of price in 
          procurement of the FFG(X) frigate.

        Subtitle F--Provisions Relating to Acquisition Workforce

Sec. 860. Establishment of Defense Civilian Training Corps.
Sec. 861. Defense acquisition workforce certification, education, and 
          career fields.
Sec. 862. Software development and software acquisition training and 
          management programs.
Sec. 863. Modification of temporary assignments of Department of Defense 
          employees to a private-sector organization.
Sec. 864. Incentives and consideration for qualified training programs.
Sec. 865. Use of qualified apprentices by military construction 
          contractors.

                   Subtitle G--Small Business Matters

Sec. 870. Requirements relating to credit for certain small business 
          concern subcontractors.
Sec. 871. Inclusion of best in class designations in annual report on 
          small business goals.
Sec. 872. Reauthorization and improvement of Department of Defense 
          Mentor-Protege Program.
Sec. 873. Accelerated payments applicable to contracts with certain 
          small business concerns under the Prompt Payment Act.
Sec. 874. Postaward explanations for unsuccessful offerors for certain 
          contracts.
Sec. 875. Small business contracting credit for subcontractors that are 
          Puerto Rico businesses or covered territory businesses.
Sec. 876. Technical amendment regarding treatment of certain surviving 
          spouses under the definition of small business concern owned 
          and controlled by service-disabled veterans.
Sec. 877. Extension of loan assistance and deferral eligibility to 
          reservists and members of the National Guard beyond periods of 
          military conflict.
Sec. 878. Modification to the Defense Research and Development Rapid 
          Innovation Program.
Sec. 879. Alignment of the Department of Defense Small Business 
          Innovation Research Program and Small Business Technology 
          Transfer Program with the National Defense Science and 
          Technology Strategy.
Sec. 880. Assistance for small business concerns participating in the 
          SBIR and STTR programs.
Sec. 881. Cybersecurity technical assistance for SBIR and STTR programs.
Sec. 882. Funding for defense research activities of small business 
          concerns.
Sec. 883. Modifications to budget display requirements for the 
          Department of Defense Small Business Innovation Research 
          Program and Small Business Technology Transfer Program.
Sec. 884. Pilot program for domestic investment under the SBIR program.

                        Subtitle H--Other Matters

Sec. 885. Review of guidance to contractors on nondiscrimination on the 
          basis of sex.
Sec. 886. Comptroller General report on contractor violations of certain 
          labor laws.
Sec. 887. Comptroller General report on contingency contracting.
Sec. 888. Policies and procedures for contractors to report gross 
          violations of internationally recognized human rights.
Sec. 889. Comptroller General report on oversight of contractors 
          providing private security functions.
Sec. 890. Prohibition on contracting with persons that have business 
          operations with the Maduro regime.
Sec. 891. Report on the Combating Trafficking in Persons initiative.
Sec. 892. Improved management of information technology and cyberspace 
          investments.
Sec. 893. Modification to requirements for purchase of commercial 
          leasing services pursuant to multiple award contracts.

       TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

   Subtitle A--Office of the Secretary of Defense and Related Matters

Sec. 901. Headquarters activities of the Department of Defense matters.
Sec. 902. Clarifying the roles and responsibilities of the Under 
          Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment and the 
          Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.
Sec. 903. Return to Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
          Defense of responsibility for business systems and related 
          matters.
Sec. 904. Assessments of responsibilities and authorities of the Chief 
          Management Officer of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 905. Senior Military Advisor for Cyber Policy and Deputy Principal 
          Cyber Advisor.
Sec. 906. Exclusion from limitations on personnel in the Office of the 
          Secretary of Defense and Department of Defense headquarters of 
          fellows appointed under the John S. McCain Defense Fellows 
          Program.

 Subtitle B--Organization and Management of Other Department of Defense 
                          Offices and Elements

Sec. 911. Codification of Assistant Secretaries for Energy, 
          Installations, and Environment of the Army, Navy, and Air 
          Force.

  Subtitle C--Other Department of Defense Organization and Management 
                                 Matters

Sec. 921. Prohibition on ownership or trading of stocks in certain 
          companies by certain officials of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 922. Limitation on consolidation of Defense Media Activity.
Sec. 923. Report on resources to implement the civilian casualty policy 
          of the Department of Defense.

                  Subtitle D--United States Space Force

Sec. 951. Short title.
Sec. 952. The Space Force.
Sec. 953. Chief of Space Operations.
Sec. 954. Space Force Acquisition Council.
Sec. 955. Assistant Secretary of Defense for Space Policy.
Sec. 956. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space Acquisition and 
          Integration.
Sec. 957. Service Acquisition Executive of the Department of the Air 
          Force for Space Systems and Programs.
Sec. 958. Conforming amendments and clarification of authorities.
Sec. 959. Effects on military installations.
Sec. 960. Availability of funds.
Sec. 961. Implementation.

                       TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                      Subtitle A--Financial Matters

Sec. 1001. General transfer authority.
Sec. 1002. Defense Business Audit Remediation Plan.
Sec. 1003. Financial improvement and audit remediation plan.
Sec. 1004. Reporting requirements relating to Department of Defense 
          audits.
Sec. 1005. Inclusion of certain military construction projects in annual 
          reports on unfunded priorities of the Armed Forces and the 
          combatant commands.
Sec. 1006. Prohibition on delegation of responsibility for submittal to 
          Congress of Out-Year Unconstrained Total Munitions 
          Requirements and Out-Year Inventory numbers.
Sec. 1007. Annual budget justification display for service-common and 
          other support and enabling capabilities for special operations 
          forces.
Sec. 1008. Element in annual reports on the Financial Improvement and 
          Audit Remediation Plan on activities with respect to 
          classified programs.
Sec. 1009. Plan of the Department of Defense for financial management 
          information.
Sec. 1010. Update of authorities and renaming of Department of Defense 
          Acquisition Workforce Development Fund.
Sec. 1011. Transparency of accounting firms used to support Department 
          of Defense audit.
Sec. 1012. Modification of required elements of annual reports on 
          emergency and extraordinary expenses of the Department of 
          Defense.

                   Subtitle B--Counterdrug Activities

Sec. 1021. Modification of authority to support a unified counterdrug 
          and counterterrorism campaign in Colombia.
Sec. 1022. Extension of authority for joint task forces to provide 
          support to law enforcement agencies conducting counter-
          terrorism activities.
Sec. 1023. Sense of Congress regarding Department of Defense counterdrug 
          activities in the transit zone and Caribbean basin.
Sec. 1024. Assessment of impact of any planned or proposed border wall 
          on volume of illegal narcotics.

                        Subtitle C--Naval Vessels

Sec. 1031. Modification of authority to purchase vessels using funds in 
          National Defense Sealift Fund.
Sec. 1032. Use of National Defense Sealift Fund for procurement of two 
          used vessels.
Sec. 1033. Transportation by sea of supplies for the Armed Forces and 
          Defense Agencies.
Sec. 1034. Senior Technical Authority for each naval vessel class.
Sec. 1035. Permanent authority for sustaining operational readiness of 
          littoral combat ships on extended deployment.
Sec. 1036. Formal training for shipboard system programs of record.
Sec. 1037. Report on shipbuilder training and the defense industrial 
          base.
Sec. 1038. Use of competitive procedures for CVN-80 and CVN-81 dual 
          aircraft carrier contract.
Sec. 1039. Report on expanding naval vessel maintenance.

                      Subtitle D--Counterterrorism

Sec. 1041. Modification of support of special operations to combat 
          terrorism.
Sec. 1042. Extension of prohibition on use of funds for transfer or 
          release of individuals detained at United States Naval 
          Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to certain countries.
Sec. 1043. Extension of prohibition on use of funds for transfer or 
          release of individuals detained at United States Naval 
          Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to the United States.
Sec. 1044. Extension of prohibition on use of funds to construct or 
          modify facilities in the United States to house detainees 
          transferred from United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, 
          Cuba.
Sec. 1045. Extension of prohibition on use of funds to close or 
          relinquish control of United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
          Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1046. Chief Medical Officer at United States Naval Station, 
          Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1047. Independent assessment on gender and countering violent 
          extremism.

          Subtitle E--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

Sec. 1051. Scheduling of Department of Defense executive aircraft 
          controlled by Secretaries of military departments.
Sec. 1052. Explosive ordnance defense disposal program.
Sec. 1053. Technical correction and extension of reporting requirement 
          regarding enhancement of information sharing and coordination 
          of military training between Department of Homeland Security 
          and Department of Defense.
Sec. 1054. Notification on the provision of defense sensitive support.
Sec. 1055. Revision to authorities relating to mail service for members 
          of the Armed Forces and Department of Defense civilians 
          overseas.
Sec. 1056. Access to and use of military post offices by United States 
          citizens employed overseas by the North Atlantic Treaty 
          Organization who perform functions in support of military 
          operations of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 1057. Expenditure of funds for Department of Defense intelligence 
          and counterintelligence activities.
Sec. 1058. Limitation on use of funds for the inactivation of Army 
          watercraft units.

                  TITLE XI--CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS

                     Subtitle A--General Provisions

Sec. 1101. Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency personnel 
          management authority.
Sec. 1102. Report on the probationary period for Department of Defense 
          employees.
Sec. 1103. Civilian personnel management.
Sec. 1104. One-year extension of temporary authority to grant 
          allowances, benefits, and gratuities to civilian personnel on 
          official duty in a combat zone.
Sec. 1105. One-year extension of authority to waive annual limitation on 
          premium pay and aggregate limitation on pay for Federal 
          civilian employees working overseas.
Sec. 1106. Performance of civilian functions by military personnel.
Sec. 1107. Extension of direct hire authority for domestic industrial 
          base facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base.
Sec. 1108. Authority to provide additional allowances and benefits for 
          certain Defense Clandestine Service employees.
Sec. 1109. Modification of direct hire authorities for the Department of 
          Defense.
Sec. 1110. Designating certain FEHBP and FEGLI services provided by 
          Federal employees as excepted services under the Anti-
          Deficiency Act.
Sec. 1111. Continuing supplemental dental and vision benefits and long-
          term care insurance coverage during a Government shutdown.
Sec. 1112. Limitation on transfer of Office of Personnel Management.
Sec. 1113. Assessment of Accelerated Promotion Program suspension.
Sec. 1114. Reimbursement for Federal, State, and local income taxes 
          incurred during travel, transportation, and relocation.
Sec. 1115. Clarification of limitation on expedited hiring authority for 
          post-secondary students.
Sec. 1116. Modification of temporary assignments of Department of 
          Defense employees to a private-sector organization.
Sec. 1117. Extension of authority for part-time reemployment.

                       Subtitle B--Fair Chance Act

Sec. 1121. Short title.
Sec. 1122. Prohibition on criminal history inquiries prior to 
          conditional offer for Federal employment.
Sec. 1123. Prohibition on criminal history inquiries by contractors 
          prior to conditional offer.
Sec. 1124. Report on employment of individuals formerly incarcerated in 
          Federal prisons.

                      Subtitle C--ATC Hiring Reform

Sec. 1131. Short title; definition.
Sec. 1132. Hiring of air traffic control specialists.
Sec. 1133. Ensuring hiring preference for applicants with experience at 
          an air traffic control facility of the National Guard.
Sec. 1134. FAA reports on air traffic controller hiring and training.
Sec. 1135. DOT Inspector General review and report.

             TITLE XII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

                   Subtitle A--Assistance and Training

Sec. 1201. Modification of authority to build capacity of foreign 
          security forces.
Sec. 1202. Modification and extension of cross servicing agreements for 
          loan of personnel protection and personnel survivability 
          equipment in coalition operations.
Sec. 1203. Modifications of authorities relating to acquisition and 
          cross-servicing agreements.
Sec. 1204. Modification of quarterly report on obligation and 
          expenditure of funds for security cooperation programs and 
          activities.
Sec. 1205. Gender perspectives and participation by women in security 
          cooperation activities.
Sec. 1206. Plan to provide consistency of administration of authorities 
          relating to vetting of units of security forces of foreign 
          countries; modification of assessment, monitoring, and 
          evaluation of security cooperation programs and activities.
Sec. 1207. Extension of authority for support of special operations for 
          irregular warfare.
Sec. 1208. Extension and modification of Commanders' Emergency Response 
          Program and elimination of certain payments to redress injury 
          and loss.
Sec. 1209. Two-year extension of program authority for Global Security 
          Contingency Fund.
Sec. 1210. Legal institutional capacity building initiative for foreign 
          defense institutions.
Sec. 1210A. Department of Defense support for stabilization activities 
          in national security interest of the United States.

        Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan

Sec. 1211. Extension of authority to transfer defense articles and 
          provide defense services to the military and security forces 
          of Afghanistan.
Sec. 1212. Extension and modification of authority to acquire products 
          and services produced in countries along a major route of 
          supply to Afghanistan.
Sec. 1213. Authority for certain payments to redress injury and loss.
Sec. 1214. Extension and modification of semiannual report on enhancing 
          security and stability in Afghanistan.
Sec. 1215. Special Immigrant Visa program reporting requirement.
Sec. 1216. Meaningful inclusion of Afghan women in peace negotiations.
Sec. 1217. Extension and modification of authority for reimbursement of 
          certain coalition nations for support provided to United 
          States military operations.
Sec. 1218. Support for reconciliation activities led by the Government 
          of Afghanistan.
Sec. 1219. Modification and extension of the Afghan Special Immigrant 
          Visa Program.

          Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Syria, Iraq, and Iran

Sec. 1221. Modification of authority and limitation on use of funds to 
          provide assistance to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and 
          Syria.
Sec. 1222. Extension and modification of authority to provide assistance 
          to vetted Syrian groups and individuals.
Sec. 1223. Modification of authority to support operations and 
          activities of the Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq.
Sec. 1224. Establishing a coordinator for detained ISIS members and 
          relevant displaced populations in Syria.
Sec. 1225. Report on lessons learned from efforts to liberate Mosul and 
          Raqqah from control of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria.
Sec. 1226. Expansion of availability of financial assets of Iran to 
          victims of terrorism.
Sec. 1227. Report on the status of deconfliction channels with Iran.
Sec. 1228. Prohibition on provision of weapons and other forms of 
          support to certain organizations.

         Subtitle D--Matters Relating to the Russian Federation

Sec. 1231. Extension of limitation on military cooperation between the 
          United States and Russia.
Sec. 1232. Prohibition on availability of funds relating to sovereignty 
          of Russia over Crimea.
Sec. 1233. Sense of Congress on updating and modernizing existing 
          agreements to avert miscalculation between the United States 
          and Russia.
Sec. 1234. United States participation in Open Skies Treaty.
Sec. 1235. Modifications of briefing, notification, and reporting 
          requirements relating to non-compliance by the Russian 
          Federation with its obligations under the INF Treaty.
Sec. 1236. Report on treaties relating to nuclear arms control.
Sec. 1237. Reports relating to the New START Treaty.
Sec. 1238. Report on military activities of the Russian Federation and 
          the People's Republic of China in the Arctic region.
Sec. 1239. Updated strategy to counter the threat of malign influence by 
          the Russian Federation and other countries.

             Subtitle E--Matters Relating to Europe and NATO

Sec. 1241. Sense of Congress on support for the North Atlantic Treaty 
          Organization.
Sec. 1242. Prohibition on the use of funds to suspend, terminate, or 
          provide notice of denunciation of the North Atlantic Treaty.
Sec. 1243. Future years plans and planning transparency for the European 
          Deterrence Initiative.
Sec. 1244. Modification and extension of Ukraine Security Assistance 
          Initiative.
Sec. 1245. Limitation on transfer of F-35 aircraft to Turkey.
Sec. 1246. Baltic defense assessment; extension and modification of 
          security assistance for Baltic countries for joint program for 
          interoperability and deterrence against aggression.
Sec. 1247. Extension of authority for and report on training for Eastern 
          European national security forces in the course of 
          multilateral exercises.
Sec. 1248. Extension and modification of NATO Special Operations 
          Headquarters.
Sec. 1249. North Atlantic Treaty Organization Joint Force Command.
Sec. 1250. Report on North Atlantic Treaty Organization Readiness 
          Initiative.
Sec. 1250A. Repeal of prohibition on transfer of articles on the United 
          States munitions list to the Republic of Cyprus.

         Subtitle F--Matters Relating to the Indo-Pacific Region

Sec. 1251. Modification of Indo-Pacific Maritime Security Initiative.
Sec. 1252. Expansion of Indo-Pacific Maritime Security Initiative and 
          limitation on use of funds.
Sec. 1253. Report on resourcing United States defense requirements for 
          the Indo-Pacific region and study on competitive strategies.
Sec. 1254. Limitation on use of funds to reduce the total number of 
          members of the Armed Forces serving on active duty who are 
          deployed to South Korea.
Sec. 1255. Report on direct, indirect, and burden-sharing contributions 
          of Japan and South Korea.
Sec. 1256. Sense of Congress on security commitments to the Governments 
          of Japan and the Republic of Korea and trilateral cooperation 
          among the United States, Japan, and the Republic of Korea.
Sec. 1257. Sense of Congress on North Korea.
Sec. 1258. Statement of policy and sense of Congress on, and strategy to 
          fulfill obligations under, Mutual Defense Treaty with the 
          Republic of the Philippines.
Sec. 1259. Report on security cooperation with the Philippine National 
          Police.
Sec. 1260. Modification of annual report on military and security 
          developments involving the People's Republic of China.
Sec. 1260A. Report on foreign military activities in Pacific Island 
          countries.
Sec. 1260B. Report on cybersecurity activities with Taiwan.
Sec. 1260C. Review and report related to the Taiwan Relations Act.
Sec. 1260D. Sense of Congress on enhancement of the United States-Taiwan 
          defense relationship.
Sec. 1260E. Chinese foreign direct investment in countries of the Arctic 
          region.
Sec. 1260F. Sense of Congress on policy toward Hong Kong.
Sec. 1260G. Sense of Congress on enhancing defense and security 
          cooperation with the Republic of Singapore.
Sec. 1260H. Authority to transfer funds for Bien Hoa dioxin cleanup.
Sec. 1260I. Limitation on removal of Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd. from 
          entity list of Bureau of Industry and Security.
Sec. 1260J. Report on ZTE compliance with Superseding Settlement 
          Agreement and Superseding Order.
Sec. 1260K. Report on the lay-down of United States Marines in the Indo-
          Pacific Region.

                        Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 1261. Modification to report on legal and policy frameworks for the 
          use of military force.
Sec. 1262. Independent review of sufficiency of resources available to 
          United States Southern Command and United States Africa 
          Command.
Sec. 1263. United States Central Command posture assessment and review.
Sec. 1264. Limitation on production of nuclear proliferation assessment 
          statements.
Sec. 1265. Western Hemisphere resource assessment.
Sec. 1266. Human rights in Brazil.
Sec. 1267. Certification relating to assistance for Guatemala.
Sec. 1268. Independent analysis of human rights situation in Honduras.
Sec. 1269. Briefing on strategy to improve the efforts of the Nigerian 
          military to prevent, mitigate, and respond to civilian harm.
Sec. 1270. Report on implications of Chinese military presence in 
          Djibouti.
Sec. 1271. Rule of construction on the permanent stationing of United 
          States Armed Forces in Somalia.
Sec. 1272. Defense and diplomatic strategy for Libya.
Sec. 1273. Prohibition on in-flight refueling to non-United States 
          aircraft that engage in hostilities in the ongoing civil war 
          in Yemen.
Sec. 1274. Report on Saudi-led coalition strikes in Yemen.
Sec. 1275. Reports on expenses incurred for in-flight refueling of Saudi 
          coalition aircraft conducting missions relating to civil war 
          in Yemen.
Sec. 1276. Report on Saudi Arabia's human rights record.
Sec. 1277. Report on intelligence community assessment relating to the 
          killing of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi.
Sec. 1278. United States-Israel cooperation to counter unmanned aerial 
          systems.
Sec. 1279. Extension and modification of authority for United States-
          Israel anti-tunnel cooperation activities.
Sec. 1280. Report on cost imposition strategy.
Sec. 1281. Modification of initiative to support protection of national 
          security academic researchers from undue influence and other 
          security threats.
Sec. 1282. Modification of responsibility for policy on civilian 
          casualty matters.
Sec. 1283. Report on export of certain satellites to entities with 
          certain beneficial ownership structures.
Sec. 1284. Rule of construction relating to the use of military force.
Sec. 1285. Reports and briefings on use of military force and support of 
          partner forces.

                TITLE XIII--COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION

Sec. 1301. Funding allocations; specification of cooperative threat 
          reduction funds.

                     TITLE XIV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

                      Subtitle A--Military Programs

Sec. 1401. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1402. Chemical agents and munitions destruction, defense.
Sec. 1403. Drug interdiction and counter-drug activities, defense-wide.
Sec. 1404. Defense inspector general.
Sec. 1405. Defense health program.

                        Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 1411. Authority for transfer of funds to joint Department of 
          Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
          Demonstration Fund for Captain James A. Lovell Health Care 
          Center, Illinois.
Sec. 1412. Authorization of appropriations for Armed Forces Retirement 
          Home.

   TITLE XV--AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR OVERSEAS 
                         CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

Sec. 1501. Purpose.
Sec. 1502. Treatment as additional authorizations.

  Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations for Overseas Contingency 
                               Operations

Sec. 1511. Overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 1512. Procurement.
Sec. 1513.  Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 1514. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 1515. Military personnel.
Sec. 1516. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1517. Drug interdiction and counter-drug activities, defense-wide.
Sec. 1518. Defense inspector general.
Sec. 1519. Defense health program.
Sec. 1520. Afghanistan security forces fund.
Sec. 1520A. Special transfer authority.

  Subtitle B--Authorization of Appropriations for Emergency Funds for 
                        Recovery and Restoration

Sec. 1521. Procurement.
Sec. 1522. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 1523. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 1524. Restriction on transfer of funds authorized by this subtitle.

     TITLE XVI--STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

                      Subtitle A--Space Activities

Sec. 1601. Repeal of requirement to establish United States Space 
          Command as a subordinate unified command of the United States 
          Strategic Command.
Sec. 1602. Coordination of modernization efforts relating to military-
          code capable GPS receiver cards.
Sec. 1603. Demonstration of backup and complementary positioning, 
          navigation, and timing capabilities of Global Positioning 
          System.
Sec. 1604. Annual determination on plan on full integration and 
          exploitation of overhead persistent infrared capability.
Sec. 1605. Space-based environmental monitoring mission requirements.
Sec. 1606. Resilient enterprise ground architecture.
Sec. 1607. Prototype program for multi-global navigation satellite 
          system receiver development.
Sec. 1608. Commercial space situational awareness capabilities.
Sec. 1609. Program to enhance and improve launch support and 
          infrastructure.
Sec. 1610. Preparation to implement plan for use of allied launch 
          vehicles.
Sec. 1611. Independent study on plan for deterrence in space.
Sec. 1612. Study on leveraging diverse commercial satellite remote 
          sensing capabilities.
Sec. 1613. Annual report on Space Command and Control program.
Sec. 1614. Report on space debris.

  Subtitle B--Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-Related Activities

Sec. 1621. Redesignation of Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence 
          as Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security.
Sec. 1622. Modifications to ISR Integration Council and annual briefing 
          requirements.
Sec. 1623. Modification of annual authorization of appropriations for 
          National Flagship Language Initiative.
Sec. 1624. Improving the onboarding methodology for intelligence 
          personnel.
Sec. 1625. Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency activities on 
          facilitating access to local criminal records historical data.
Sec. 1626. Survey and report on alignment of intelligence collections 
          capabilities and activities with Department of Defense 
          requirements.
Sec. 1627. Reports on Consolidated Adjudication Facility of the Defense 
          Counterintelligence and Security Agency.
Sec. 1628. Report on the expanded purview of the Defense 
          Counterintelligence and Security Agency.
Sec. 1629. Termination of requirement for Department of Defense facility 
          access clearances for joint ventures composed of previously-
          cleared entities.

                 Subtitle C--Cyberspace-Related Matters

Sec. 1631. Matters relating to military operations in the information 
          environment.
Sec. 1632. Notification requirements for sensitive military cyber 
          operations.
Sec. 1633. Evaluation of cyber vulnerabilities of major weapon systems 
          of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1634. Quarterly assessments of the readiness of Cyber Mission 
          Forces.
Sec. 1635. Cyber posture review.
Sec. 1636. Modification of elements of assessment required for 
          termination of dual-hat arrangement for Commander of the 
          United States Cyber Command.
Sec. 1637. Modification of cyber scholarship program.
Sec. 1638. Tier 1 exercise of support to civil authorities for a cyber 
          incident.
Sec. 1639. Extension of the Cyberspace Solarium Commission.
Sec. 1640. Authority to use operation and maintenance funds for cyber 
          operations-peculiar capability development projects.
Sec. 1641. Role of Chief Information Officer in improving enterprise-
          wide cybersecurity.
Sec. 1642. Notification of delegation of authorities to the Secretary of 
          Defense for military operations in cyberspace.
Sec. 1643. Limitation of funding for Consolidated Afloat Networks and 
          Enterprise Services.
Sec. 1644. Annual military cyberspace operations report.
Sec. 1645. Annual report on cyber attacks and intrusions against the 
          Department of Defense by certain foreign entities.
Sec. 1646. Control and analysis of Department of Defense data stolen 
          through cyberspace.
Sec. 1647. Use of National Security Agency cybersecurity expertise to 
          support evaluation of commercial cybersecurity products.
Sec. 1648. Framework to enhance cybersecurity of the United States 
          defense industrial base.
Sec. 1649. Report on cybersecurity training programs.
Sec. 1650. National Security Presidential Memorandums relating to 
          Department of Defense operations in cyberspace.
Sec. 1651. Reorientation of Big Data Platform program.
Sec. 1652. Zero-based review of Department of Defense cyber and 
          information technology personnel.
Sec. 1653. Study on improving cyber career paths in the Navy.
Sec. 1654. Accreditation standards and processes for cybersecurity and 
          information technology products and services.
Sec. 1655. Study on future cyber warfighting capabilities of Department 
          of Defense.
Sec. 1656. Study to determine the optimal strategy for structuring and 
          manning elements of the Joint Force Headquarters-Cyber 
          Organizations, Joint Mission Operations Centers, and Cyber 
          Operations-Integrated Planning Elements.
Sec. 1657. Cyber governance structures and Principal Cyber Advisors on 
          military cyber force matters.
Sec. 1658. Designation of test networks for testing and accreditation of 
          cybersecurity products and services.
Sec. 1659. Consortia of universities to advise Secretary of Defense on 
          cybersecurity matters.
Sec. 1660. Joint assessment of Department of Defense cyber red team 
          capabilities, capacity, demand, and requirements.

                       Subtitle D--Nuclear Forces

Sec. 1661. Conforming amendment to Council on Oversight of the National 
          Leadership Command, Control, and Communications System.
Sec. 1662. Modification of authorities relating to nuclear command, 
          control, and communications system.
Sec. 1663. Briefings on meetings held by Nuclear Weapons Council.
Sec. 1664. Consideration of budget matters at meetings of Nuclear 
          Weapons Council.
Sec. 1665. Improvement to annual report on the modernization of the 
          nuclear weapons enterprise.
Sec. 1666. Expansion of officials required to conduct biennial 
          assessments of delivery platforms for nuclear weapons and 
          nuclear command and control system.
Sec. 1667. Extension of annual briefing on costs of forward-deploying 
          nuclear weapons in Europe.
Sec. 1668. Elimination of conventional requirement for long-range 
          standoff weapon.
Sec. 1669. Briefing on long-range standoff weapon and sea-launched 
          cruise missile.
Sec. 1670. Extension of prohibition on availability of funds for mobile 
          variant of ground-based strategic deterrent missile.
Sec. 1671. Reports on development of ground-based strategic deterrent 
          weapon.
Sec. 1672. Prohibition on reduction of the intercontinental ballistic 
          missiles of the United States.
Sec. 1673. Independent study on policy of no-first-use of nuclear 
          weapons.
Sec. 1674. Independent study on risks of nuclear terrorism and nuclear 
          war.
Sec. 1675. Report on military-to-military dialogue to reduce risks of 
          miscalculation leading to nuclear war.
Sec. 1676. Report on nuclear forces of the United States and near-peer 
          countries.
Sec. 1677. Report on operation of conventional forces of military 
          departments under employment or threat of employment of 
          nuclear weapons.
Sec. 1678. Report on operation of conventional forces of certain 
          combatant commands under employment or threat of employment of 
          nuclear weapons.
Sec. 1679. Briefings on plan for future-systems-level architecture of 
          nuclear command, control, and communications systems.
Sec. 1680. Sense of Congress on nuclear deterrence commitments of the 
          United States.

                  Subtitle E--Missile Defense Programs

Sec. 1681. National missile defense policy.
Sec. 1682. Development of space-based ballistic missile intercept layer.
Sec. 1683. Development of hypersonic and ballistic missile tracking 
          space sensor payload.
Sec. 1684. Modifications to required testing by Missile Defense Agency 
          of ground-based midcourse defense element of ballistic missile 
          defense system.
Sec. 1685. Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system and Israeli 
          cooperative missile defense program co-development and co-
          production.
Sec. 1686. Limitation on availability of funds for lower tier air and 
          missile defense sensor.
Sec. 1687. Plan for the redesigned kill vehicle replacement.
Sec. 1688. Organization, authorities, and billets of the Missile Defense 
          Agency.
Sec. 1689. Annual assessment of ballistic missile defense system.
Sec. 1690. Command and control, battle management, and communications 
          program.
Sec. 1691. Missile defense interceptor site in contiguous United States.
Sec. 1692. Independent study on impacts of missile defense development 
          and deployment.
Sec. 1693. Report and briefing on multi-volume kill capability.

                        Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 1694. Extension of authorization for protection of certain 
          facilities and assets from unmanned aircraft.
Sec. 1695. Repeal of requirement for commission on electromagnetic pulse 
          attacks and similar events.
Sec. 1696. Repeal of review requirement for ammonium perchlorate report.
Sec. 1697. Transferability of conventional prompt global strike weapon 
          system technologies to surface-launched platforms.
Sec. 1698. Prohibition on availability of funds for certain offensive 
          ground-launched ballistic or cruise missile systems.
Sec. 1699. Hard and deeply buried targets.

                  TITLE XVII--REPORTS AND OTHER MATTERS

                     Subtitle A--Studies and Reports

Sec. 1701. Modification of annual reporting requirements on defense 
          manpower.
Sec. 1702. Termination of requirement for submittal to Congress of 
          certain recurring reports.
Sec. 1703. Modification of annual report on civilian casualties in 
          connection with United States military operations.
Sec. 1704. Extension of requirement for briefings on the national 
          biodefense strategy.
Sec. 1705. Authorization of appropriations for title III of the Defense 
          Production Act of 1950.
Sec. 1706. Report on the Department of Defense plan for mass-casualty 
          disaster response operations in the Arctic.
Sec. 1707. Transmittal to Congress of requests for assistance from other 
          departments of the Federal Government that are approved by the 
          Department of Defense.
Sec. 1708. Report and briefing on implementation of national defense 
          strategy.
Sec. 1709. Actions to increase analytic support.
Sec. 1710. Inclusion of certain individuals investigated by Inspectors 
          General in the semiannual report.
Sec. 1711. Annual report on Joint Military Information Support 
          Operations Web Operations Center.
Sec. 1712. Mobility capability requirements study.
Sec. 1713. Assessment of special operations force structure.
Sec. 1714. Army aviation strategic plan and modernization roadmap.
Sec. 1715. Report on ground-based long-range artillery to counter land 
          and maritime threats.
Sec. 1716. Independent review of transportation working-capital fund.
Sec. 1717. Geographic command risk assessment of proposed use of certain 
          aircraft capabilities.
Sec. 1718. Report on backlog of personnel security clearance 
          adjudications.
Sec. 1719. Report regarding outstanding Government Accountability Office 
          recommendations.
Sec. 1720. Report on National Guard and United States Northern Command 
          capacity to meet homeland defense and security incidents.
Sec. 1721. Assessment of standards, processes, procedures, and policy 
          relating to civilian casualties.
Sec. 1722. Report on transfers of equipment to prohibited entities.
Sec. 1723. Annual report on strikes undertaken by the United States 
          against terrorist targets outside areas of active hostilities.
Sec. 1724. Review and assessment of mitigation of military helicopter 
          noise.

                        Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 1731. Technical, conforming, and clerical amendments.
Sec. 1732. Establishment of lead Inspector General for an overseas 
          contingency operation based on Secretary of Defense 
          notification.
Sec. 1733. Clarification of authority of Inspectors General for overseas 
          contingency operations.
Sec. 1734. Employment status of annuitants for Inspectors General for 
          overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 1735. Extension of National Security Commission on Artificial 
          Intelligence.
Sec. 1736. Exemption from calculation of monthly income, for purposes of 
          bankruptcy laws, of certain payments from the Department of 
          Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1737. Extension of postage stamp for breast cancer research.
Sec. 1738. National Commission on Military Aviation Safety.
Sec. 1739. Guarantee of residency for spouses of members of the 
          uniformed services.
Sec. 1740. Electromagnetic pulses and geomagnetic disturbances.
Sec. 1741. Improvements to Manufacturing USA Program.
Sec. 1742. Regional innovation program.
Sec. 1743. Aviation workforce development.
Sec. 1744. Oversight of Department of Defense execute orders.
Sec. 1745. Processes and procedures for notifications regarding special 
          operations forces.
Sec. 1746. Securing American science and technology.
Sec. 1747. Standardized policy guidance for calculating aircraft 
          operation and sustainment costs.
Sec. 1748. Special Federal Aviation Regulation Working Group.
Sec. 1749. Prohibition on names related to the Confederacy.
Sec. 1750. Support for National Maritime Heritage Grants program.
Sec. 1751. Support for world language advancement and readiness.
Sec. 1752. Designation of Department of Defense strategic Arctic ports.
Sec. 1753. Independent studies regarding potential cost savings with 
          respect to the nuclear security enterprise and force structure 
          .
Sec. 1754. Comprehensive Department of Defense policy on collective 
          self-defense.
Sec. 1755. Policy regarding the transition of data and applications to 
          the cloud.
Sec. 1756. Integrated public alert and warning system.
Sec. 1757. Improving quality of information in background investigation 
          request packages.
Sec. 1758. Parole in place for members of the Armed Forces and certain 
          military dependents.
Sec. 1759. Report on reducing the backlog in legally required historical 
          declassification obligations of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1760. Military type certification for light attack experimentation 
          aircraft.

            DIVISION B--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 2001. Short title.
Sec. 2002. Expiration of authorizations and amounts required to be 
          specified by law.
Sec. 2003. Effective date.

                  TITLE XXI--ARMY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2101. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2102. Family housing.
Sec. 2103. Authorization of appropriations, Army.
Sec. 2104. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2019 projects.

                 TITLE XXII--NAVY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2201. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2202. Family housing.
Sec. 2203. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2204. Authorization of appropriations, Navy.
Sec. 2205. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2017 project.

              TITLE XXIII--AIR FORCE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2301. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2302. Family housing.
Sec. 2303. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2304. Authorization of appropriations, Air Force.
Sec. 2305. Modification of authorities to carry out phased Joint 
          Intelligence Analysis Complex consolidation.
Sec. 2306. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2016 project.
Sec. 2307. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2017 project.
Sec. 2308. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2018 projects.
Sec. 2309. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2019 projects.

           TITLE XXIV--DEFENSE AGENCIES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2401. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2402. Authorized Energy Resilience and Conservation Investment 
          Program projects.
Sec. 2403. Authorization of appropriations, Defense Agencies.

                    TITLE XXV--INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS

   Subtitle A--North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
                                 Program

Sec. 2501. Authorized NATO construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2502. Authorization of appropriations, NATO.

             Subtitle B--Host Country In-kind Contributions

Sec. 2511. Republic of Korea funded construction projects.

             TITLE XXVI--GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES

Sec. 2601. Authorized Army National Guard construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2602. Authorized Army Reserve construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2603. Authorized Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve construction 
          and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2604. Authorized Air National Guard construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2605. Authorized Air Force Reserve construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2606. Authorization of appropriations, National Guard and Reserve.

          TITLE XXVII--BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 2701. Authorization of appropriations for base realignment and 
          closure activities funded through Department of Defense base 
          closure account.
Sec. 2702. Prohibition on conducting additional base realignment and 
          closure (BRAC) round.

         TITLE XXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PROVISIONS

                Subtitle A--Military Construction Program

Sec. 2801. Military installation resilience plans and projects.
Sec. 2802. Improved consultation with tribal governments when proposed 
          military construction projects potentially impact Indian 
          tribes.
Sec. 2803. Increased authority for use of certain appropriations amounts 
          for restoration or replacement of damaged or destroyed 
          facilities.
Sec. 2804. Amendment of Unified Facilities Criteria to promote military 
          installation resilience, energy resilience, energy and climate 
          resiliency, and cyber resilience.
Sec. 2805. Modification to Department of Defense Form 1391 regarding 
          consideration of potential long-term adverse environmental 
          effects.
Sec. 2806. Improved flood risk disclosure for military construction.
Sec. 2807. Prioritization of projects in annual report on unfunded 
          requirements for laboratory military construction projects.
Sec. 2808. Technical corrections and improvements to defense access road 
          resilience.
Sec. 2809. Military construction projects for child development centers 
          at military installations.
Sec. 2810. Prohibition on use of funds to reduce air base resiliency or 
          demolish protected aircraft shelters in the European theater 
          without creating a similar protection from attack.
Sec. 2811. Prohibition on use of funds to close or return certain bases 
          to the host nation.

         Subtitle B--Real Property and Facilities Administration

Sec. 2821. Improved energy security for main operating bases in Europe.
Sec. 2822. Access to Department of Defense installations for 
          credentialed transportation workers.
Sec. 2823. Improved recording and maintaining of Department of Defense 
          real property data.

                      Subtitle C--Land Conveyances

Sec. 2831. Land conveyance, Hill Air Force Base, Ogden, Utah.
Sec. 2832. Release of interests retained in Camp Joseph T. Robinson, 
          Arkansas, for use of such land as a veterans cemetery.
Sec. 2833. Modification of authorized uses of certain property conveyed 
          by the United States in Los Angeles, California.
Sec. 2834. Transfer of administrative jurisdiction over certain parcels 
          of Federal land in Arlington, Virginia.

                  Subtitle D--Military Land Withdrawals

Sec. 2841. Public notice regarding upcoming periods of Secretary of the 
          Navy management of Shared Use Area of the Johnson Valley Off-
          Highway Vehicle Recreation Area.

   Subtitle E--White Sands National Park and White Sands Missile Range

Sec. 2851. White Sands Missile Range Land Enhancements.

                        Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 2861. Installation and maintenance of fire extinguishers in 
          Department of Defense facilities.
Sec. 2862. Definition of community infrastructure for purposes of 
          military base reuse studies and community planning assistance.
Sec. 2863. Temporary authority for acceptance and use of contributions 
          for certain design and construction projects mutually 
          beneficial to the Department of Defense and the Republic of 
          Korea.
Sec. 2864. Black start exercises at military installations.
Sec. 2865. Pilot program to extend service life of roads and runways 
          under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Defense.
Sec. 2866. Restrictions on rehabilitation of Over-the-Horizon 
          Backscatter Radar System receiving station, Modoc County, 
          California.
Sec. 2867. Designation of Sumpter Smith Joint National Guard Base.
Sec. 2868. Santa Ynez Band of Chumash Indians land affirmation.
Sec. 2869. Lands to be taken into trust as part of the reservation of 
          the Lytton Rancheria.
Sec. 2870. Little Shell Tribe of Chippewa Indians of Montana.
Sec. 2871. Sense of Congress on restoration of Tyndall Air Force Base.

 TITLE XXIX--AUTHORIZATION OF OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS MILITARY 
            CONSTRUCTION AND EMERGENCY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

    Subtitle A--Overseas Contingency Operations Military Construction

Sec. 2901. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2902. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2903. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2904. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2905. Authorization of appropriations.

               Subtitle B--Emergency Military Construction

Sec. 2911. Authorization of emergency Navy construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2912. Authorization of emergency Air Force construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2913. Authorization of emergency Army National Guard construction 
          and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2914. Authorization of emergency Defense Agencies construction and 
          land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2915. Authorization of emergency supplemental appropriations for 
          military construction projects.

            TITLE XXX--MILITARY HOUSING PRIVATIZATION REFORM

Sec. 3001. Definitions.

              Subtitle A--Addition of New Reform Subchapter

Sec. 3011. Improved accountability and oversight of privatized military 
          housing and protections and responsibilities for tenants of 
          privatized military housing.
Sec. 3012. Designation of Chief Housing Officer for privatized military 
          housing.
Sec. 3013. Additional requirements relating to contracts for privatized 
          military housing.
Sec. 3014. Additional requirements relating to management of privatized 
          military housing.
Sec. 3015. Consideration of contractor history in contracts for 
          privatized military housing.
Sec. 3016. Additional improvements for management of privatized military 
          housing.
Sec. 3017. Maintenance work order system for privatized military 
          housing.
Sec. 3018. Access by tenants of privatized military housing to 
          maintenance work order system.
Sec. 3019. Access by tenants to historical maintenance information for 
          privatized military housing.
Sec. 3020. Prohibition on requirement to disclose personally 
          identifiable information in certain requests for maintenance 
          of privatized military housing.
Sec. 3021. Treatment of incentive fees for landlords of privatized 
          military housing for failure to remedy a health or 
          environmental hazard.
Sec. 3022. Dispute resolution process for landlord-tenant disputes 
          regarding privatized military housing and requests to withhold 
          payments during dispute resolution process.
Sec. 3023. Investigation of reports of reprisals relating to privatized 
          military housing and congressional notification.
Sec. 3024. Prohibition on use of nondisclosure agreements in connection 
          with leases of privatized military housing.

                 Subtitle B--Other Amendatory Provisions

Sec. 3031. Installation of carbon monoxide detectors in military family 
          housing.
Sec. 3032. Authority to furnish certain services in connection with use 
          of alternative authority for acquisition and improvement of 
          military housing.
Sec. 3033. Treatment of breach of contract for privatized military 
          housing.
Sec. 3034. Modification to requirements for window fall prevention 
          devices in military family housing units.
Sec. 3035. Expansion of direct hire authority for Department of Defense 
          for childcare services providers for Department child 
          development centers to include direct hire authority for 
          installation military housing office personnel.
Sec. 3036. Modification of authority to make payments to lessors of 
          privatized military housing.
Sec. 3037. Technical correction to definition used to make payments to 
          lessors of privatized military housing.

               Subtitle C--One-Time Reporting Requirements

Sec. 3041. Report on civilian personnel shortages for appropriate 
          oversight of management of military housing constructed or 
          acquired using alternative authority for acquisition and 
          improvement of military housing.
Sec. 3042. Plans for creation of councils on privatized military 
          housing.
Sec. 3043. Plan for establishment of Department of Defense jurisdiction 
          over off-base privatized military housing.
Sec. 3044. Inspector General review of Department of Defense oversight 
          of privatized military housing.
Sec. 3045. Information on legal services provided to members of the 
          Armed Forces harmed by health or environmental hazards at 
          military housing.

    Subtitle D--Development of Housing Reform Standards and Processes

Sec. 3051. Uniform code of basic standards for privatized military 
          housing and plan to conduct inspections and assessments.
Sec. 3052. Tool for assessment of hazards in Department of Defense 
          housing.
Sec. 3053. Process to identify and address environmental health hazards 
          in Department of Defense housing.
Sec. 3054. Department of Defense policy on lead-based paint testing on 
          military installations.
Sec. 3055. Standard for minimum credentials for health and environmental 
          inspectors of privatized military housing.
Sec. 3056. Requirements relating to move-in, move-out, and maintenance 
          of privatized military housing.
Sec. 3057. Standardized documentation, templates, and forms for 
          privatized military housing.
Sec. 3058. Satisfaction survey for tenants of military housing.

                Subtitle E--Other Housing Reform Matters

Sec. 3061. Radon testing of privatized military housing.
Sec. 3062. Mitigation of risks posed by certain items in military family 
          housing units.
Sec. 3063. Suspension of Resident Energy Conservation Program and 
          related programs for privatized military housing.
Sec. 3064. Department of the Army pilot program to build and monitor use 
          of single family homes.

 DIVISION C--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND 
                          OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

       TITLE XXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

        Subtitle A--National Security Programs and Authorizations

Sec. 3101. National Nuclear Security Administration.
Sec. 3102. Defense environmental cleanup.
Sec. 3103. Other defense activities.
Sec. 3104. Nuclear energy.

    Subtitle B--Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 3111. Personnel matters at National Nuclear Security 
          Administration.
Sec. 3112. Estimation of costs of meeting defense environmental cleanup 
          milestones required by consent orders.
Sec. 3113. Office of Cost Estimating and Program Evaluation.
Sec. 3114. Clarification of certain Stockpile Responsiveness Program 
          objectives.
Sec. 3115. Elimination of limitation on availability of funds relating 
          to submission of annual reports on unfunded priorities.
Sec. 3116. Modification to certain requirements relating to plutonium 
          pit production capacity.
Sec. 3117. Annual certification of shipments to Waste Isolation Pilot 
          Plant.
Sec. 3118. Extension and modification of pilot program on unavailability 
          for overhead costs of amounts specified for laboratory-
          directed research and development.
Sec. 3119. Modification to limitation on availability of funds for 
          acceleration of nuclear weapons dismantlement.
Sec. 3120. Implementation of common financial reporting system for 
          nuclear security enterprise.
Sec. 3121. Limitation relating to reclassification of high-level waste.
Sec. 3122. National Laboratory Jobs ACCESS Program.

                  Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 3131. Civil penalties for violations of certain whistleblower 
          protections.
Sec. 3132. Repeal of assessments of adequacy of budget requests relating 
          to nuclear weapons stockpile.
Sec. 3133. Repeal of requirement for review relating to enhanced 
          procurement authority.
Sec. 3134. Improvements to Energy Employees Occupational Illness 
          Compensation Program Act of 2000.
Sec. 3135. Replacement of W78 warhead.
Sec. 3136. Independent review of capabilities for detection, 
          verification, and monitoring of nuclear weapons and fissile 
          material.
Sec. 3137. Assessment of high energy density physics.
Sec. 3138. Determination of effect of treaty obligations with respect to 
          producing tritium.
Sec. 3139. Technical corrections to National Nuclear Security 
          Administration Act and Atomic Energy Defense Act.

          TITLE XXXII--DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD

Sec. 3201. Authorization.
Sec. 3202. Improvements to Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board.
Sec. 3203. Membership of Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board.

                  TITLE XXXIV--NAVAL PETROLEUM RESERVES

Sec. 3401. Authorization of appropriations.

                      TITLE XXXV--MARITIME MATTERS

                   Subtitle A--Maritime Administration

Sec. 3501. Authorization of the Maritime Administration.
Sec. 3502. Reauthorization of Maritime Security Program.
Sec. 3503. Maritime technical assistance program.
Sec. 3504. Appointment of candidates attending sponsored preparatory 
          school.
Sec. 3505. General support program.
Sec. 3506. Improvements to the maritime guaranteed loan program.
Sec. 3507. Requirement for small shipyard grantees.
Sec. 3508. Salvage recoveries of cargoes.
Sec. 3509. Salvage recoveries for subrogated ownership of vessels and 
          cargoes.
Sec. 3510. Maritime Occupational Safety and Health Advisory Committee.
Sec. 3511. Military to mariner.
Sec. 3512. Department of Transportation Inspector General Report.
Sec. 3513. Independent study on the United States Merchant Marine 
          Academy.
Sec. 3514. Port operations, research, and technology.
Sec. 3515. Assessment and report on strategic seaports.
Sec. 3516. Technical corrections.
Sec. 3517. United States Merchant Marine Academy sexual assault 
          prevention and response program.
Sec. 3518. Report on vessels for emerging offshore energy 
          infrastructure.
Sec. 3519. Report on United States flagged fuel tanker vessel capacity.

                    Subtitle B--Cable Security Fleet

Sec. 3521. Establishment of Cable Security Fleet.

                      Subtitle C--Maritime SAFE Act

Sec. 3531. Short titles.
Sec. 3532. Definitions.
Sec. 3533. Purposes.
Sec. 3534. Statement of policy.

  Part I--Programs to Combat IUU Fishing and Increase Maritime Security

Sec. 3541. Coordination with international organizations.
Sec. 3542. Engagement of diplomatic missions of the United States.
Sec. 3543. Assistance by Federal agencies to improve law enforcement 
          within priority regions and priority flag states.
Sec. 3544. Expansion of existing mechanisms to combat IUU fishing.
Sec. 3545. Improvement of transparency and traceability programs.
Sec. 3546. Technology programs.
Sec. 3547. Savings clause.

   Part II--Establishment of Interagency Working Group on IUU Fishing

Sec. 3551. Interagency Working Group on IUU Fishing.
Sec. 3552. Strategic plan.
Sec. 3553. Reports.
Sec. 3554. Gulf of Mexico IUU Fishing Subworking Group.

 Part III--Combating Human Trafficking in Connection With the Catching 
                   and Processing of Seafood Products

Sec. 3561. Finding.
Sec. 3562. Adding the Secretary of Commerce to the Interagency Task 
          Force to Monitor and Combat Trafficking.
Sec. 3563. Human trafficking in the seafood supply chain report.

                Part IV--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 3571. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 3572. Accounting of funds.

                       DIVISION D--FUNDING TABLES

Sec. 4001. Authorization of amounts in funding tables.

                         TITLE XLI--PROCUREMENT

Sec. 4101. Procurement.
Sec. 4102. Procurement for overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 4103. Procurement for emergency requirements.

         TITLE XLII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

Sec. 4201. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 4202. Research, development, test, and evaluation for overseas 
          contingency operations.
Sec. 4203. Research, development, test, and evaluation for emergency 
          requirements.

                 TITLE XLIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

Sec. 4301. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 4302. Operation and maintenance for overseas contingency 
          operations.
Sec. 4303. Operation and maintenance for emergency requirements.

                     TITLE XLIV--MILITARY PERSONNEL

Sec. 4401. Military personnel.
Sec. 4402. Military personnel for overseas contingency operations.

                     TITLE XLV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 4501. Other authorizations.
Sec. 4502. Other authorizations for overseas contingency operations.

                    TITLE XLVI--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 4601. Military construction.
Sec. 4602. Military construction for overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 4603. Military construction for emergency requirements.

      TITLE XLVII--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

Sec. 4701. Department of Energy national security programs.

DIVISION E--INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATIONS FOR FISCAL YEARS 2018, 2019, AND 
                                  2020

Sec. 5001. Short title.
Sec. 5002. Subdivisions and table of contents.
Sec. 5003. Definitions.

     Subdivision 1--Intelligence Authorizations for Fiscal Year 2020

Sec. 5100. Table of contents.

                    TITLE LI--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 5101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 5102. Classified schedule of authorizations.
Sec. 5103. Intelligence community management account.

 TITLE LII--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

Sec. 5201. Authorization of appropriations.

               TITLE LIII--INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MATTERS

           Subtitle A--General Intelligence Community Matters

Sec. 5301. Restriction on conduct of intelligence activities.
Sec. 5302. Increase in employee compensation and benefits authorized by 
          law.
Sec. 5303. Expansion of scope of protections for identities of covert 
          agents.
Sec. 5304. Required counterintelligence assessments, briefings, 
          notifications, and reports.
Sec. 5305. Inclusion of security risks in program management plans 
          required for acquisition of major systems in National 
          Intelligence Program.
Sec. 5306. Intelligence community public-private talent exchange.
Sec. 5307. Assessment of contracting practices to identify certain 
          security and counterintelligence concerns.

       Subtitle B--Office of the Director of National Intelligence

Sec. 5321. Establishment of Climate Security Advisory Council.
Sec. 5322. Foreign Malign Influence Response Center.
Sec. 5323. Encouragement of cooperative actions to detect and counter 
          foreign influence operations.
Sec. 5324. Transfer of National Intelligence University to the Office of 
          the Director of National Intelligence.

       Subtitle C--Inspector General of the Intelligence Community

Sec. 5331. Definitions.
Sec. 5332. Inspector General external review panel.
Sec. 5333. Harmonization of whistleblower processes and procedures.
Sec. 5334. Oversight by Inspector General of the Intelligence Community 
          over intelligence community whistleblower matters.
Sec. 5335. Report on cleared whistleblower attorneys.

                 Subtitle D--Central Intelligence Agency

Sec. 5341. Clarification of certain authority of the Central 
          Intelligence Agency.

                     TITLE LIV--SECURITY CLEARANCES

Sec. 5401. Improving visibility into the security clearance process.
Sec. 5402. Making certain policies and execution plans relating to 
          personnel clearances available to industry partners.

             TITLE LV--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN COUNTRIES

                 Subtitle A--Matters Relating to Russia

Sec. 5501. Annual reports on influence operations and campaigns in the 
          United States by the Russian Federation.
Sec. 5502. Assessment of legitimate and illegitimate financial and other 
          assets of Vladimir Putin.
Sec. 5503. Assessments of intentions of political leadership of the 
          Russian Federation.

                  Subtitle B--Matters Relating to China

Sec. 5511. Annual reports on influence operations and campaigns in the 
          United States by the Communist Party of China.
Sec. 5512. Report on repression of ethnic Muslim minorities in the 
          Xinjiang region of the People's Republic of China.
Sec. 5513. Report on efforts by People's Republic of China to influence 
          election in Taiwan.

             Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Other Countries

Sec. 5521. Sense of Congress and report on Iranian efforts in Syria and 
          Lebanon.
Sec. 5522. Assessments regarding the Northern Triangle and Mexico.

          TITLE LVI--FEDERAL EFFORTS AGAINST DOMESTIC TERRORISM

Sec. 5601. Definitions.
Sec. 5602. Strategic intelligence assessment of and reports on domestic 
          terrorism.

                  TITLE LVII--REPORTS AND OTHER MATTERS

                    Subtitle A--Reports and Briefings

Sec. 5701.  Modification of requirements for submission to Congress of 
          certain reports.
Sec. 5702. Increased transparency regarding counterterrorism budget of 
          the United States.
Sec. 5703. Study on role of retired and former personnel of intelligence 
          community with respect to certain foreign intelligence 
          operations.
Sec. 5704. Collection, analysis, and dissemination of workforce data.
Sec. 5705. Plan for strengthening the supply chain intelligence 
          function.
Sec. 5706. Comprehensive economic assessment of investment in key United 
          States technologies by companies or organizations linked to 
          China.
Sec. 5707. Report by Director of National Intelligence on fifth-
          generation wireless network technology.
Sec. 5708. Report on use by intelligence community of facial recognition 
          technology.
Sec. 5709. Report on deepfake technology, foreign weaponization of 
          deepfakes, and related notifications.
Sec. 5710. Annual report by Comptroller General of the United States on 
          cybersecurity and surveillance threats to Congress.
Sec. 5711. Analysis of and periodic briefings on major initiatives of 
          intelligence community in artificial intelligence and machine 
          learning.
Sec. 5712. Report on best practices to protect privacy and civil 
          liberties of Chinese Americans.
Sec. 5713. Oversight of foreign influence in academia.
Sec. 5714. Report on death of Jamal Khashoggi.
Sec. 5715. Report on terrorist screening database.
Sec. 5716. Report containing threat assessment on terrorist use of 
          conventional and advanced conventional weapons.
Sec. 5717. Assessment of homeland security vulnerabilities associated 
          with certain retired and former personnel of the intelligence 
          community.
Sec. 5718. Study on feasibility and advisability of establishing 
          Geospatial-Intelligence Museum and learning center.

                        Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 5721. Whistleblower disclosures to Congress and committees of 
          Congress.
Sec. 5722. Task force on illicit financing of espionage and foreign 
          influence operations.
Sec. 5723. Establishment of fifth-generation technology prize 
          competition.
Sec. 5724. Establishment of deepfakes prize competition.
Sec. 5725. Identification of and countermeasures against certain 
          International Mobile Subscriber Identity-catchers.
Sec. 5726. Securing energy infrastructure.

  Subdivision 2--Intelligence Authorizations for Fiscal Years 2018 and 
                                  2019

Sec. 6100. Table of contents.

                   TITLE LXI--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 6101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 6102. Intelligence Community Management Account.

TITLE LXII--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

Sec. 6201. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 6202. Computation of annuities for employees of the Central 
          Intelligence Agency.

           TITLE LXIII--GENERAL INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MATTERS

Sec. 6301. Restriction on conduct of intelligence activities.
Sec. 6302. Increase in employee compensation and benefits authorized by 
          law.
Sec. 6303. Modification of special pay authority for science, 
          technology, engineering, or mathematics positions and addition 
          of special pay authority for cyber positions.
Sec. 6304. Modification of appointment of Chief Information Officer of 
          the Intelligence Community.
Sec. 6305. Director of National Intelligence review of placement of 
          positions within the intelligence community on the Executive 
          Schedule.
Sec. 6306. Supply Chain and Counterintelligence Risk Management Task 
          Force.
Sec. 6307. Consideration of adversarial telecommunications and 
          cybersecurity infrastructure when sharing intelligence with 
          foreign governments and entities.
Sec. 6308. Cyber protection support for the personnel of the 
          intelligence community in positions highly vulnerable to cyber 
          attack.
Sec. 6309. Elimination of sunset of authority relating to management of 
          supply-chain risk.
Sec. 6310. Limitations on determinations regarding certain security 
          classifications.
Sec. 6311. Joint Intelligence Community Council.
Sec. 6312. Intelligence community information technology environment.
Sec. 6313. Report on development of secure mobile voice solution for 
          intelligence community.
Sec. 6314. Policy on minimum insider threat standards.
Sec. 6315. Submission of intelligence community policies.
Sec. 6316. Expansion of intelligence community recruitment efforts.

 TITLE LXIV--MATTERS RELATING TO ELEMENTS OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY

       Subtitle A--Office of the Director of National Intelligence

Sec. 6401. Authority for protection of current and former employees of 
          the Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
Sec. 6402. Designation of the program manager-information-sharing 
          environment.
Sec. 6403. Technical modification to the executive schedule.
Sec. 6404. Chief Financial Officer of the Intelligence Community.
Sec. 6405. Chief Information Officer of the Intelligence Community.

                 Subtitle B--Central Intelligence Agency

Sec. 6411. Central Intelligence Agency subsistence for personnel 
          assigned to austere locations.
Sec. 6412. Special rules for certain monthly workers' compensation 
          payments and other payments for Central Intelligence Agency 
          personnel.
Sec. 6413. Expansion of security protective service jurisdiction of the 
          Central Intelligence Agency.
Sec. 6414. Repeal of foreign language proficiency requirement for 
          certain senior level positions in the Central Intelligence 
          Agency.

Subtitle C--Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence of Department 
                                of Energy

Sec. 6421. Consolidation of Department of Energy Offices of Intelligence 
          and Counterintelligence.
Sec. 6422. Repeal of Department of Energy Intelligence Executive 
          Committee and budget reporting requirement.

                       Subtitle D--Other Elements

Sec. 6431. Plan for designation of counterintelligence component of 
          Defense Security Service as an element of intelligence 
          community.
Sec. 6432. Notice not required for private entities.
Sec. 6433. Establishment of advisory board for National Reconnaissance 
          Office.
Sec. 6434. Collocation of certain Department of Homeland Security 
          personnel at field locations.

                       TITLE LXV--ELECTION MATTERS

Sec. 6501. Report on cyber attacks by foreign governments against United 
          States election infrastructure.
Sec. 6502. Review of intelligence community's posture to collect against 
          and analyze Russian efforts to influence the Presidential 
          election.
Sec. 6503. Assessment of foreign intelligence threats to Federal 
          elections.
Sec. 6504. Strategy for countering Russian cyber threats to United 
          States elections.
Sec. 6505. Assessment of significant Russian influence campaigns 
          directed at foreign elections and referenda.
Sec. 6506. Information sharing with State election officials.
Sec. 6507. Notification of significant foreign cyber intrusions and 
          active measures campaigns directed at elections for Federal 
          offices.
Sec. 6508. Designation of counterintelligence officer to lead election 
          security matters.

                     TITLE LXVI--SECURITY CLEARANCES

Sec. 6601. Definitions.
Sec. 6602. Reports and plans relating to security clearances and 
          background investigations.
Sec. 6603. Improving the process for security clearances.
Sec. 6604. Goals for promptness of determinations regarding security 
          clearances.
Sec. 6605. Security Executive Agent.
Sec. 6606. Report on unified, simplified, Governmentwide standards for 
          positions of trust and security clearances.
Sec. 6607. Report on clearance in person concept.
Sec. 6608. Reports on reciprocity for security clearances inside of 
          departments and agencies.
Sec. 6609. Intelligence community reports on security clearances.
Sec. 6610. Periodic report on positions in the intelligence community 
          that can be conducted without access to classified 
          information, networks, or facilities.
Sec. 6611. Information-sharing program for positions of trust and 
          security clearances.
Sec. 6612. Report on protections for confidentiality of whistleblower-
          related communications.
Sec. 6613. Reports on costs of security clearance background 
          investigations.

                 TITLE LXVII--REPORTS AND OTHER MATTERS

     Subtitle A--Matters Relating to Russia and Other Foreign Powers

Sec. 6701. Limitation relating to establishment or support of 
          cybersecurity unit with the Russian Federation.
Sec. 6702. Assessment of threat finance relating to Russia.
Sec. 6703. Notification of an active measures campaign.
Sec. 6704. Notification of travel by accredited diplomatic and consular 
          personnel of the Russian Federation in the United States.
Sec. 6705. Report and annual briefing on Iranian expenditures supporting 
          foreign military and terrorist activities.
Sec. 6706. Expansion of scope of committee to counter active measures.

                           Subtitle B--Reports

Sec. 6711. Technical correction to Inspector General study.
Sec. 6712. Reports on authorities of the Chief Intelligence Officer of 
          the Department of Homeland Security.
Sec. 6713. Review of intelligence community whistleblower matters.
Sec. 6714. Report on role of Director of National Intelligence with 
          respect to certain foreign investments.
Sec. 6715. Report on surveillance by foreign governments against United 
          States telecommunications networks.
Sec. 6716. Biennial report on foreign investment risks.
Sec. 6717. Modification of certain reporting requirement on travel of 
          foreign diplomats.
Sec. 6718. Semiannual reports on investigations of unauthorized 
          disclosures of classified information.
Sec. 6719. Congressional notification of designation of covered 
          intelligence officer as persona non grata.
Sec. 6720. Reports on intelligence community participation in 
          vulnerabilities equities process of Federal Government.
Sec. 6721. Inspectors General reports on classification.
Sec. 6722. Reports and briefings on national security effects of global 
          water insecurity and emerging infectious disease and 
          pandemics.
Sec. 6723. Annual report on memoranda of understanding between elements 
          of intelligence community and other entities of the United 
          States Government regarding significant operational activities 
          or policy.
Sec. 6724. Study on the feasibility of encrypting unclassified wireline 
          and wireless telephone calls.
Sec. 6725. Reports on intelligence community loan repayment and related 
          programs.
Sec. 6726. Repeal of certain reporting requirements.
Sec. 6727. Inspector General of the Intelligence Community report on 
          senior executives of the Office of the Director of National 
          Intelligence.
Sec. 6728. Briefing on Federal Bureau of Investigation offering 
          permanent residence to sources and cooperators.
Sec. 6729. Intelligence assessment of North Korea revenue sources.
Sec. 6730. Report on possible exploitation of virtual currencies by 
          terrorist actors.

                        Subtitle C--Other Matters

Sec. 6741. Public Interest Declassification Board.
Sec. 6742. Technical and clerical amendments to the National Security 
          Act of 1947.
Sec. 6743. Bug bounty programs.
Sec. 6744. Technical amendments related to the Department of Energy.
Sec. 6745. Sense of Congress on notification of certain disclosures of 
          classified information.
Sec. 6746. Sense of Congress on consideration of espionage activities 
          when considering whether or not to provide visas to foreign 
          individuals to be accredited to a United Nations mission in 
          the United States.
Sec. 6747. Sense of Congress on WikiLeaks.

                        DIVISION F--OTHER MATTERS

            TITLE LXXI--SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO NORTH KOREA

Sec. 7101. Short title.

            Subtitle A--Sanctions With Respect to North Korea

Sec. 7111. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 7112. Definitions.

           Part I--Expansion of Sanctions and Related Matters

Sec. 7121. Sanctions with respect to foreign financial institutions that 
          provide financial services to certain sanctioned persons.
Sec. 7122. Mandatory designations under North Korea Sanctions and Policy 
          Enhancement Act of 2016.
Sec. 7123. Extension of applicability period of proliferation prevention 
          sanctions.
Sec. 7124. Opposition to assistance by the international financial 
          institutions.
Sec. 7125. Support for capacity of the International Monetary Fund to 
          prevent money laundering and financing of terrorism.
Sec. 7126. Report and briefings on compliance, penalties, and technical 
          assistance.
Sec. 7127. Sense of Congress on identification and blocking of property 
          of North Korean officials.
Sec. 7128. Modification of report on implementation of United Nations 
          Security Council resolutions by other governments.
Sec. 7129. Report on use by the Government of North Korea of beneficial 
          ownership rules to access the international financial system.

               Part II--Congressional Review and Oversight

Sec. 7131. Notification of termination or suspension of sanctions.
Sec. 7132. Reports on certain licensing actions.
Sec. 7133. Report and briefings on financial networks and financial 
          methods of the Government of North Korea.
Sec. 7134. Report on countries of concern with respect to transshipment, 
          reexportation, or diversion of certain items to North Korea.

                        Part III--General Matters

Sec. 7141. Rulemaking.
Sec. 7142. Authority to consolidate reports.
Sec. 7143. Waivers, exemptions, and termination.
Sec. 7144. Procedures for review of classified and certain other 
          information.
Sec. 7145. Briefing on resourcing of sanctions programs.
Sec. 7146. Briefing on proliferation financing.
Sec. 7147. Exception relating to importation of goods.

       Subtitle B--Financial Industry Guidance to Halt Trafficking

Sec. 7151. Short title.
Sec. 7152. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 7153. Coordination of human trafficking issues by the Office of 
          Terrorism and Financial Intelligence.
Sec. 7154. Strengthening the role of anti-money laundering and other 
          financial tools in combating human trafficking.
Sec. 7155. Sense of Congress on resources to combat human trafficking.

 TITLE LXXII--SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FOREIGN TRAFFICKERS OF ILLICIT 
                            SYNTHETIC OPIOIDS

Sec. 7201. Short title.
Sec. 7202. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 7203. Definitions.

    Subtitle A--Sanctions With Respect to Foreign Opioid Traffickers

Sec. 7211. Identification of foreign opioid traffickers.
Sec. 7212. Imposition of sanctions.
Sec. 7213. Description of sanctions.
Sec. 7214. Waivers.
Sec. 7215. Procedures for judicial review of classified information.
Sec. 7216. Briefings on implementation.
Sec. 7217. Inclusion of additional material in International Narcotics 
          Control Strategy Report.

    Subtitle B--Commission on Combating Synthetic Opioid Trafficking

Sec. 7221. Commission on combating synthetic opioid trafficking.

                        Subtitle C--Other Matters

Sec. 7231. Director of National Intelligence program on use of 
          intelligence resources in efforts to sanction foreign opioid 
          traffickers.
Sec. 7232. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 7233. Regulatory authority.
Sec. 7234. Termination.
Sec. 7235. Exception relating to importation of goods.

                           TITLE LXXIII--PFAS

Sec. 7301. Short title.
Sec. 7302. Definition of Administrator.

                       Subtitle A--Drinking Water

Sec. 7311. Monitoring and detection.
Sec. 7312. Drinking water state revolving funds.

                   Subtitle B--PFAS Release Disclosure

Sec. 7321. Additions to toxics release inventory.

                  Subtitle C--USGS Performance Standard

Sec. 7331. Definitions.
Sec. 7332. Performance standard for the detection of highly fluorinated 
          compounds.
Sec. 7333. Nationwide sampling.
Sec. 7334. Data usage.
Sec. 7335. Collaboration.

                    Subtitle D--Emerging Contaminants

Sec. 7341. Definitions.
Sec. 7342. Research and coordination plan for enhanced response on 
          emerging contaminants.

                Subtitle E--Toxic Substances Control Act

Sec. 7351. PFAS data call.
Sec. 7352. Significant new use rule for long-chain PFAS.

                        Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 7361. PFAS destruction and disposal guidance.
Sec. 7362. PFAS research and development.

        TITLE LXXIV--CAESAR SYRIA CIVILIAN PROTECTION ACT OF 2019

Sec. 7401. Short title.
Sec. 7402. Statement of policy.

Subtitle A--Additional Actions in Connection With the National Emergency 
                          With Respect to Syria

Sec. 7411. Measures with respect to Central Bank of Syria.
Sec. 7412. Sanctions with respect to foreign persons that engage in 
          certain transactions.
Sec. 7413. Strategy relating to areas of Syria in which civilians are 
          subject to forced displacement.

             Subtitle B--Assistance for the People of Syria

Sec. 7421. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 7422. Briefing on monitoring and evaluating of ongoing assistance 
          programs in Syria and to the Syrian people.
Sec. 7423. Assessment of potential methods to enhance the protection of 
          civilians.
Sec. 7424. Assistance to support entities taking actions relating to 
          gathering evidence for investigations into war crimes or 
          crimes against humanity in Syria since March 2011.
Sec. 7425. Codification of certain services in support of 
          nongovernmental organizations' activities authorized.
Sec. 7426. Briefing on strategy to facilitate humanitarian assistance.

                     Subtitle C--General Provisions

Sec. 7431. Suspension of sanctions.
Sec. 7432. Waivers and exemptions.
Sec. 7433. Implementation and regulatory authorities.
Sec. 7434. Exception relating to importation of goods.
Sec. 7435. Cost limitation.
Sec. 7436. Rule of construction.
Sec. 7437. Prohibition on construction of provisions of this title as an 
          authorization for use of military force.
Sec. 7438. Sunset.

             TITLE LXXV--PROTECTING EUROPE'S ENERGY SECURITY

Sec. 7501. Short title.
Sec. 7502. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 7503. Imposition of sanctions with respect to provision of certain 
          vessels for the construction of certain Russian energy export 
          pipelines.

                       TITLE LXXVI--OTHER MATTERS

               Subtitle A--Federal Employee Paid Leave Act

Sec. 7601. Short title.
Sec. 7602. Paid parental leave under title 5.
Sec. 7603. Paid parental leave for congressional employees.
Sec. 7604. Conforming amendment to Family and Medical Leave Act for GAO 
          and Library of Congress employees.
Sec. 7605. Clarification for members of the National Guard and Reserves.
Sec. 7606. Conforming amendment for certain TSA employees.

                        Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 7611. Liberian refugee immigration fairness.
Sec. 7612. Pensacola Dam and Reservoir, Grand River, Oklahoma.
Sec. 7613. Limitation on certain rolling stock procurements; 
          cybersecurity certification for rail rolling stock and 
          operations.
SEC. 3. CONGRESSIONAL DEFENSE COMMITTEES.
    In this Act, the term ``congressional defense committees'' has the 
meaning given that term in section 101(a)(16) of title 10, United 
States Code.
SEC. 4. BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF THIS ACT.
    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purposes of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, jointly submitted for printing in the 
Congressional Record by the Chairmen of the House and Senate Budget 
Committees, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to 
the vote on passage in the House acting first on the conference report 
or amendment between the Houses.

            DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATIONS
                          TITLE I--PROCUREMENT

               Subtitle A--Authorization Of Appropriations

Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.

                        Subtitle B--Army Programs

Sec. 111. Authority of the Secretary of the Army to waive certain 
          limitations related to the Distributed Common Ground System-
          Army Increment 1.

                        Subtitle C--Navy Programs

Sec. 121. Ford-class aircraft carrier cost limitation baselines.
Sec. 122. Modification of annual report on cost targets for certain 
          aircraft carriers.
Sec. 123. Refueling and complex overhauls of the U.S.S. John C. Stennis 
          and U.S.S. Harry S. Truman.
Sec. 124. Ford class aircraft carrier support for F-35C aircraft.
Sec. 125. Prohibition on use of funds for reduction of aircraft carrier 
          force structure.
Sec. 126. Modification of prohibition on availability of funds for Navy 
          waterborne security barriers.
Sec. 127. LHA Replacement Amphibious Assault Ship Program.
Sec. 128. Strategic sealift fleet vessel.
Sec. 129. Design and construction of amphibious transport dock 
          designated LPD-31.
Sec. 130. Limitation on availability of funds for the Littoral Combat 
          Ship.
Sec. 131. Limitation on the next new class of Navy large surface 
          combatants.
Sec. 132. Limitation on availability of funds pending quarterly updates 
          on the CH-53K King Stallion helicopter program.
Sec. 133. Limitation on availability of funds for VH-92A helicopter.
Sec. 134. Report on carrier wing and aviation combat element 
          composition.

                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

Sec. 141. Modification of requirement to preserve certain C-5 aircraft.
Sec. 142. OC-135B aircraft recapitalization program.
Sec. 143. Requirement to align Air Force aviation force structure with 
          National Defense Strategy.
Sec. 144. Prohibition on availability of funds for reduction in KC-10 
          primary mission aircraft inventory.
Sec. 145. Limitation on availability of funds for F-15EX aircraft.
Sec. 146. Limitation on availability of funds for VC-25B aircraft.
Sec. 147. Limitation on availability of funds for RC-26B aircraft.
Sec. 148. Limitation on availability of funds for retirement of RC-135 
          aircraft.
Sec. 149. Air Force aggressor squadron modernization.
Sec. 150. Air Force plan for Combat Rescue Helicopter fielding.
Sec. 151. Report on feasibility of multiyear contract for procurement of 
          JASSM-ER missiles.
Sec. 152. Report on aircraft fleet of the Civil Air Patrol.
Sec. 153. Sense of Congress on the light attack aircraft initiative of 
          the Air Force.

        Subtitle E--Defense-wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

Sec. 161. Economic order quantity contracting and buy-to-budget 
          acquisition for F-35 aircraft program.
Sec. 162. Relief from contractors for failure to deliver ready-for-issue 
          spare parts for the F-35 aircraft program.
Sec. 163. Limitation on availability of funds for reallocation of 
          Turkish F-35A aircraft to the United States.
Sec. 164. Requirement to establish the use of an Agile DevOps software 
          development solution as an alternative for Joint Strike 
          Fighter Autonomic Logistics Information System.
Sec. 165. F-35 sustainment cost.
Sec. 166. Reports on the progress and performance of the F-35 aircraft 
          program.
Sec. 167. Other reports on the F-35 aircraft program.
Sec. 168. Limitation on availability of funds for communications systems 
          lacking certain resiliency features.
Sec. 169. Repeal of tactical unmanned vehicle common data link 
          requirement.

              Subtitle A--Authorization Of Appropriations

    SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for procurement for the Army, the Navy and the Marine Corps, the Air 
Force, and Defense-wide activities, as specified in the funding table 
in section 4101.

                       Subtitle B--Army Programs

    SEC. 111. AUTHORITY OF THE SECRETARY OF THE ARMY TO WAIVE CERTAIN 
      LIMITATIONS RELATED TO THE DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND SYSTEM-ARMY 
      INCREMENT 1.
    Section 113(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2028) is amended by striking 
``Secretary of Defense'' both places it appears and inserting 
``Secretary of the Army''.

                       Subtitle C--Navy Programs

    SEC. 121. FORD-CLASS AIRCRAFT CARRIER COST LIMITATION BASELINES.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 863 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 8692. Ford-class aircraft carriers: cost limitation baselines
    ``(a) Limitation.--The total amounts obligated or expended from 
funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available for 
Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, or for any other procurement 
account, may not exceed the following amounts for the following 
aircraft carriers:
        ``(1) $13,224,000,000 for the construction of the aircraft 
    carrier designated CVN-78.
        ``(2) $11,398,000,000 for the construction of the aircraft 
    carrier designated CVN-79.
        ``(3) $12,202,000,000 for the construction of the aircraft 
    carrier designated CVN-80.
        ``(4) $12,451,000,000 for the construction of the aircraft 
    carrier designated CVN-81.
    ``(b) Exclusion of Battle and Interim Spares From Cost 
Limitation.--The Secretary of the Navy shall exclude from the 
determination of the amounts set forth in subsection (a) the costs of 
the following items:
        ``(1) CVN-78 class battle spares.
        ``(2) Interim spares.
        ``(3) Increases attributable to economic inflation after 
    December 1, 2018, not otherwise included in the amounts listed in 
    subsection (a).
    ``(c) Written Notice and Briefing on Change in Amount.--The 
Secretary of the Navy may adjust an amount listed in subsection (a) not 
fewer than 15 days after submitting written notice and providing a 
briefing to the congressional defense committees, each of which shall 
include the amount and rationale of any change and the resulting amount 
after such change.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 863 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 8691 the following new item:

``8692. Ford-class aircraft carriers: cost limitation baselines.''.

    (c) Repeal of Superseded Provision.--Section 122 of the John Warner 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 
109-364; 120 Stat. 2104) is repealed.
    SEC. 122. MODIFICATION OF ANNUAL REPORT ON COST TARGETS FOR CERTAIN 
      AIRCRAFT CARRIERS.
    Section 126(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2035) is amended--
        (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``and CVN-80'' and 
    inserting ``, CVN-80, and CVN-81'';
        (2) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) by striking ``2021'' and inserting ``2032''; and
            (B) by striking ``costs described in subsection (b) for the 
        CVN-79 and CVN-80'' and inserting ``cost targets for the CVN-
        79, the CVN-80, and the CVN-81''; and
        (3) in paragraph (2)--
            (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
        `` and the CVN-80'' and inserting ``, the CVN-80, and the CVN-
        81''
            (B) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``costs described in 
        subsection (b)'' and inserting ``cost targets'';
            (C) in subparagraph (F), by striking ``costs specified in 
        subsection (b)'' and inserting ``cost targets''; and
            (D) in subparagraph (G), by striking ``costs specified in 
        subsection (b)'' and inserting ``cost targets''.
    SEC. 123. REFUELING AND COMPLEX OVERHAULS OF THE U.S.S. JOHN C. 
      STENNIS AND U.S.S. HARRY S. TRUMAN.
    (a) Refueling and Complex Overhaul.--The Secretary of the Navy 
shall carry out the nuclear refueling and complex overhaul of the 
U.S.S. John C. Stennis (CVN-74) and U.S.S. Harry S. Truman (CVN-75).
    (b) Use of Incremental Funding.--With respect to any contract 
entered into under subsection (a) for the nuclear refueling and complex 
overhauls of the U.S.S. John C. Stennis (CVN-74) and U.S.S. Harry S. 
Truman (CVN-75), the Secretary may use incremental funding for a period 
not to exceed six years after advance procurement funds for such 
nuclear refueling and complex overhaul effort are first obligated.
    (c) Condition for Out-year Contract Payments.--Any contract entered 
into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the 
United States to make a payment under the contract for a fiscal year 
after fiscal year 2020 is subject to the availability of appropriations 
for that purpose for that later fiscal year.
    SEC. 124. FORD CLASS AIRCRAFT CARRIER SUPPORT FOR F-35C AIRCRAFT.
    Before completing the post-shakedown availability of the Ford class 
aircraft carrier designated CVN-79, the Secretary of the Navy shall 
ensure that the aircraft carrier is capable of operating and deploying 
with the F-35C aircraft.
    SEC. 125. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR REDUCTION OF AIRCRAFT 
      CARRIER FORCE STRUCTURE.
    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
otherwise made available for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of 
Defense may be obligated or expended to reduce the number of 
operational aircraft carriers of the Navy below the number specified in 
section 8062(b) of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 126. MODIFICATION OF PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR 
      NAVY WATERBORNE SECURITY BARRIERS.
    Section 130 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a) by striking ``for fiscal year 2019 may be 
    obligated or expended to procure legacy waterborne security 
    barriers for Navy ports'' and inserting ``for fiscal year 2019 or 
    fiscal year 2020 may be obligated or expended to procure legacy 
    waterborne security barriers for Navy ports, including as 
    replacements for legacy barriers'';
        (2) in subsection (c)(1), by inserting ``of not more than 30 
    percent'' after ``replacement''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Notification.--Not later than 15 days after an exception is 
made pursuant to subsection (c)(2), the Secretary of the Navy shall 
submit a written notification to the congressional defense committees 
that includes--
        ``(1) the name and position of the government official who 
    determined exigent circumstances exist;
        ``(2) a description of the exigent circumstances; and
        ``(3) a description of how waterborne security will be 
    maintained until new waterborne security barriers are procured and 
    installed.''.
    SEC. 127. LHA REPLACEMENT AMPHIBIOUS ASSAULT SHIP PROGRAM.
    (a) Authority to Use Incremental Funding.--The Secretary of the 
Navy may enter into and incrementally fund a contract for detail design 
and construction of the LHA replacement ship designated LHA 9 and, 
subject to subsection (b), funds for payments under the contract may be 
provided from amounts authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, for fiscal years 2019 
through 2025.
    (b) Condition for Out-year Contract Payments.--A contract entered 
into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the 
United States to make a payment under the contract for any subsequent 
fiscal year is subject to the availability of appropriations for that 
purpose for such subsequent fiscal year.
    (c) Repeal of Obsolete Authority.--Section 125 of the John Warner 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 
109-364; 120 Stat. 2106) is repealed.
    SEC. 128. STRATEGIC SEALIFT FLEET VESSEL.
    (a) In General.--Subject to the availability of appropriations, the 
Secretary of the Navy shall seek to enter into a contract for the 
construction of one sealift vessel.
    (b) Delivery Date.--The contract entered into under subsection (a) 
shall specify a delivery date for the sealift vessel of not later than 
September 30, 2026.
    (c) Design and Construction Requirements.--
        (1) Use of existing design.--The design of the sealift vessel 
    shall be based on a domestic or foreign design that exists as of 
    the date of the enactment of this Act.
        (2) Commercial standards and practices.--Subject to paragraph 
    (1), the sealift vessel may be constructed using commercial design 
    standards and commercial construction practices that are consistent 
    with the best interests of the Federal Government.
        (3) Domestic shipyard.--The sealift vessel shall be constructed 
    in a shipyard that is located in the United States.
    (d) Certificate and Endorsement.--The sealift vessel shall meet the 
requirements necessary to receive a certificate of documentation and a 
coastwise endorsement under chapter 121 of tile 46, United States Code, 
and the Secretary of the Navy shall ensure that the completed vessel 
receives such a certificate and endorsement.
    (e) Executive Agent.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Navy may seek to enter 
    into a contract or other agreement with a private-sector entity 
    under which the entity may act as executive agent for the Secretary 
    for purposes of the contract under subsection (a).
        (2) Responsibilities.--The executive agent described in 
    paragraph (1) may be responsible for--
            (A) selecting a shipyard for the construction of the 
        sealift vessel;
            (B) managing and overseeing the construction of the sealift 
        vessel; and
            (C) such other matters as the Secretary of the Navy 
        determines to be appropriate
    (f) Use of Incremental Funding.--With respect to the contract 
entered into under subsection (a), the Secretary of the Navy may use 
incremental funding to make payments under the contract.
    (g) Sealift Vessel Defined.--In this section, the term ``sealift 
vessel'' means the sealift vessel constructed pursuant to the contract 
entered into under subsection (a).
    SEC. 129. DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF AMPHIBIOUS TRANSPORT DOCK 
      DESIGNATED LPD-31.
    (a) In General.--Using funds authorized to be appropriated for the 
Department of Defense for Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, the 
Secretary of the Navy may enter into a contract, beginning with the 
fiscal year 2020 program year, for the design and construction of the 
amphibious transport dock designated LPD-31.
    (b) Use of Incremental Funding.--With respect to the contract 
entered into under subsection (a), the Secretary may use incremental 
funding to make payments under the contract.
    (c) Condition for Out-year Contract Payments.--The contract entered 
into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the 
United States to make a payment under such contract for any fiscal year 
after fiscal year 2020 is subject to the availability of appropriations 
for that purpose for such later fiscal year.
    SEC. 130. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR THE LITTORAL 
      COMBAT SHIP.
    (a) Limitations.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
by this Act for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of Defense may be 
used to exceed, and the Department may not otherwise exceed, the total 
procurement quantity of thirty-five Littoral Combat Ships, unless the 
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment submits to 
the congressional defense committees the certification described in 
subsection (b).
    (b) Certification.--The certification described in this subsection 
is a certification by the Under Secretary that awarding a contract for 
the procurement of a Littoral Combat Ship that exceeds the total 
procurement quantity listed in revision five of the Littoral Combat 
Ship acquisition strategy--
        (1) is in the national security interests of the United States;
        (2) will not result in exceeding the low-rate initial 
    production quantity approved in the Littoral Combat Ship 
    acquisition strategy in effect as of the date of the certification; 
    and
        (3) is necessary to maintain a full and open competition for 
    the Guided Missile Frigate (FFG(X)) with a single source award in 
    fiscal year 2020.
    SEC. 131. LIMITATION ON THE NEXT NEW CLASS OF NAVY LARGE SURFACE 
      COMBATANTS.
    (a) In General.--Milestone B approval may not be granted for the 
next new class of Navy large surface combatants unless the class of 
Navy large surface combatants incorporates prior to such approval--
        (1) design changes identified during the full duration of the 
    combat system ship qualification trials and operational test 
    periods of the first Arleigh Burke-class destroyer in the Flight 
    III configuration to complete such events; and
        (2) final results of test programs of engineering development 
    models or prototypes for critical systems specified by the Senior 
    Technical Authority pursuant to section 8669b of title 10, United 
    States Code, as added by section 1034 of this Act, in their final 
    form, fit, and function and in a realistic environment, which shall 
    include a land-based engineering site for the propulsion system.
    (b) Limitation.--The Secretary of the Navy may not release a detail 
design or construction request for proposals or obligate funds from the 
Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy account for the next new class of 
Navy large surface combatants until the class of Navy large surface 
combatants receives Milestone B approval and the milestone decision 
authority notifies the congressional defense committees, in writing, of 
the actions taken to comply with the requirements under subsection (a).
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``Milestone B approval'' has the meaning given the 
    term in section 2366(e)(7) of title 10, United States Code.
        (2) The term ``milestone decision authority'' means the 
    official within the Department of Defense designated with the 
    overall responsibility and authority for acquisition decisions for 
    the program, including authority to approve entry of the program 
    into the next phase of the acquisition process.
        (3) The term ``large surface combatants'' means Navy surface 
    ships that are designed primarily to engage in attacks against 
    airborne, surface, subsurface, and shore targets, excluding 
    frigates and littoral combat ships.
    SEC. 132. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS PENDING QUARTERLY 
      UPDATES ON THE CH-53K KING STALLION HELICOPTER PROGRAM.
    (a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2020 for aircraft 
procurement, Navy, for the CH-53K King Stallion helicopter program, not 
more than 50 percent may be obligated or expended until a period of 30 
days has elapsed following the date on which the Secretary of the Navy 
provides the first briefing required under subsection (b).
    (b) Quarterly Briefings Required.--
        (1) In general.--Beginning not later than 30 days after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, and on a quarterly basis 
    thereafter through the end of fiscal year 2022, the Secretary of 
    the Navy shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
    Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing on the progress 
    of the CH-53K King Stallion helicopter program.
        (2) Elements.--Each briefing under paragraph (1) shall include, 
    with respect to the CH-53K King Stallion helicopter program, the 
    following:
            (A) An overview of the program schedule.
            (B) A statement of the total cost of the program as of the 
        date of the briefing, including the costs of development, 
        testing, and production.
            (C) A comparison of the total cost of the program relative 
        to the approved acquisition program baseline.
            (D) An assessment of flight testing under the program, 
        including identification of the number of test events that have 
        been conducted on-time in accordance with the joint integrated 
        program schedule.
            (E) An update on the correction of technical deficiencies 
        under the program, including--
                (i) identification of the technical deficiencies that 
            have been corrected as of the date of the briefing;
                (ii) identification of the technical deficiencies that 
            have been discovered, but not corrected, as of such date;
                (iii) an estimate of the total cost of correcting 
            technical deficiencies under the program; and
                (iv) an explanation of any significant deviations from 
            the testing and program schedule that are anticipated due 
            to the discovery and correction of technical deficiencies.
    SEC. 133. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR VH-92A 
      HELICOPTER.
    (a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2020 for procurement 
for the VH-92A helicopter, not more than 80 percent may be obligated or 
expended until the date on which the Secretary of Navy submits to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives the report required under subsection (b).
    (b) Report Required.--The Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report assessing the status of the VH-92A helicopter 
program industrial base and the potential impact of proposed 
manufacturing base changes on the acquisition program. The report shall 
include a description of--
        (1) estimated effects on the manufacturing readiness level of 
    the VH-92 program due to potential changes to the program 
    manufacturing base;
        (2) the estimated costs and assessment of cost risk to the 
    program due to potential changes to the program manufacturing base;
        (3) any estimated schedule impacts, including impacts on 
    delivery dates for the remaining low-rate initial production lots 
    and full rate production, resulting from any changes to the 
    manufacturing base;
        (4) an assessment of the effect of changes to the manufacturing 
    base on VH-92A sustainment; and
        (5) the impact of such changes on production and sustainment 
    capacity for the MH-60 and CH-53K helicopters of the Navy.
    SEC. 134. REPORT ON CARRIER WING AND AVIATION COMBAT ELEMENT 
      COMPOSITION.
    (a) In General.--Not later than May 1, 2020, the Secretary of the 
Navy shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
the optimal composition of the carrier air wing (CVW) on aircraft 
carriers and aviation combat element (ACE) embarked on amphibious ships 
in 2030 and 2040, including alternative force design concepts.
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following elements for the CVW and ACE:
        (1) Analysis and justification for the Department of the Navy's 
    stated goal of a 50/50 mix of 4th and 5th generation aircraft for 
    2030.
        (2) Analysis and justification for an optimal mix of aircraft 
    for 2040.
        (3) A plan for incorporating unmanned aerial vehicles and 
    associated communication capabilities to effectively implement the 
    future force design.
        (4) Analysis of the support equipment requirement for each 
    aircraft type and the space needed to accommodate such equipment.
        (5) A description of existing and potential ship designs or 
    design changes that would enable greater commonality and 
    interoperability of embarked naval aircraft, including aircraft 
    arresting gear and launch catapults.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than March 1, 2020, the Secretary of the 
Navy shall provide the congressional defense committees a briefing on 
the report required under subsection (a).

                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

    SEC. 141. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENT TO PRESERVE CERTAIN C-5 
      AIRCRAFT.
    Section 141(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 1661) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``until the date that is 30 
    days after the date on which the briefing under section 144(b) of 
    the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 is 
    provided to the congressional defense committees'' and inserting 
    ``until the date that is 30 days after the date on which the final 
    report and briefing required under section 1712(c)(2) of the 
    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 have each 
    been provided to the congressional defense committees''; and
        (2) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ``can be returned to 
    service'' and inserting ``is inducted into or maintained in type 
    1000 recallable storage''.
    SEC. 142. OC-135B AIRCRAFT RECAPITALIZATION PROGRAM.
    The Secretary of the Air Force shall ensure that any request for 
proposals for the procurement of an OC-135B aircraft under a 
recapitalization program for such aircraft meets the requirements for 
full and open competition as set forth in section 2304 of title 10, 
United States Code, and includes, as part of such request for 
proposals, consideration of proposals for the provision of new 
production aircraft and recently manufactured aircraft.
    SEC. 143. REQUIREMENT TO ALIGN AIR FORCE AVIATION FORCE STRUCTURE 
      WITH NATIONAL DEFENSE STRATEGY.
    (a) Required Submission of Strategy.--Not later than March 1, 2020, 
the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees an aviation force structure acquisition strategy 
that aligns with the stated capability and capacity requirements of the 
Department of the Air Force to meet the National Defense Strategy.
    (b) Alignment With Strategy.--The Secretary of the Air Force may 
not deviate from the strategy submitted under subsection (a) until--
        (1) the Secretary receives a waiver from the Secretary of 
    Defense, in consultation with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
    Staff; and
        (2) the Secretary of Defense provides the congressional defense 
    committees with the waiver approval documentation.
    SEC. 144. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR REDUCTION IN KC-
      10 PRIMARY MISSION AIRCRAFT INVENTORY.
    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
otherwise made available for fiscal year 2020 for the Air Force may be 
obligated or expended to reduce the number of KC-10 aircraft in the 
primary mission aircraft inventory of the Air Force.
    SEC. 145. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR F-15EX AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Limitation.--Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2020 for the Air Force may be obligated or 
expended to procure any F-15EX aircraft, other than the first two 
prototypes of such aircraft, until a period of 15 days has elapsed 
following the date on which the Secretary of the Air Force submits to 
the congressional defense committees a report on the following topics 
relating to the F-15EX program:
        (1) Acquisition strategy.
        (2) Cost and schedule estimates.
        (3) Test and evaluation strategy.
        (4) Logistics strategy.
        (5) Post-production fielding strategy.
    (b) Exception for Long-lead Items.--
        (1) In general.--Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Secretary 
    of the Air Force may use the funds described in paragraph (2) to 
    procure long-lead items for up to six additional F-15EX aircraft 
    beyond the first two prototypes of such aircraft.
        (2) Funds described.--The funds described in this paragraph are 
    funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
    available for fiscal year 2020 for the Air Force for any of the 
    following:
            (A) Research and development, nonrecurring engineering.
            (B) Aircraft procurement.
    (c) F-15EX Program Defined.--In this section, the term ``F-15EX 
program'' means the F-15EX aircraft program of the Air Force as 
described in the materials submitted to Congress by the Secretary of 
Defense in support of the budget of the President for fiscal year 2020 
(as submitted to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 21, United 
States Code).
    SEC. 146. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR VC-25B AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Limitation.--Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2020 or any subsequent fiscal year for the 
Air Force may be obligated or expended to carry out over and above work 
on the VC-25B aircraft until a period of 30 days has elapsed following 
the date on which the Secretary of the Air Force notifies the 
congressional defense committees of the intent of the Secretary to 
authorize such work.
    (b) Exception.--The limitation under subsection (a) shall not apply 
to over and above work carried out--
        (1) to repair or replace items damaged during the testing of 
    the VC-25B aircraft; or
        (2) to make changes necessary to meet operational requirements.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``operational requirements'' means any of the 
    operational requirements for the VC-25B aircraft described in the 
    capability development document or the system requirements document 
    for the Presidential Aircraft Recapitalization Program.
        (2) The term ``over and above work'' means work performed 
    pursuant to line 0012 (CLIN 0012) of the contract for Presidential 
    Aircraft Recapitalization entered into between the Department of 
    the Air Force and the Boeing Company (contract number FA8625-16-C-
    6599).
    SEC. 147. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR RC-26B AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Limitation.--Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2020 for the Air Force may be obligated or 
expended to retire, divest, realign, or place in storage or on backup 
aircraft inventory status, or prepare to retire, divest, realign, or 
place in storage or backup inventory status, any RC-26B aircraft until 
the date on which the Secretary of the Air Force submits to the 
congressional defense committees--
        (1) the report required under subsection (c); and
        (2) the certification required under subsection (d).
    (b) Exception.--The limitation in subsection (a) shall not apply to 
individual RC-26B aircraft that the Secretary of the Air Force 
determines, on a case-by-case basis, to be no longer mission capable 
because of mishaps or other damage.
    (c) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to 
the congressional defense committees a report that includes the 
following:
        (1) A survey of any requirements for the Air Force to provide 
    intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance support to other 
    military forces and civil authorities that the Air Force and the 
    Air National Guard meet using the RC-26B aircraft.
        (2) An assessment of the extent to which such requirements are 
    appropriate for the Air Force to fulfill.
        (3) The manner in which the Secretary would meet such 
    requirements if the RC-26B aircraft were to be retired.
        (4) A comparison of costs and effectiveness of alternative 
    means of providing intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance 
    support to other military forces and civil authorities.
        (5) An assessment of the utility of entering into one or more 
    memoranda of agreement with other military forces and civil 
    authorities to govern the process for providing intelligence, 
    surveillance, and reconnaissance support to those forces and 
    authorities.
    (d) Certification Required.--Not later than 60 days after the date 
on which the Secretary of the Air Force submits the report required 
under subsection (c), the Secretary shall certify to the congressional 
defense committees--
        (1) whether there are requirements for the Air Force to provide 
    intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance support to other 
    military forces and civil authorities that the Air Force meets 
    using the RC-26B aircraft; and
        (2) whether the Secretary has identified methods of meeting 
    such requirements that are more effective and more efficient than 
    meeting such requirements through the use of the RC-26B aircraft.
    SEC. 148. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OF RC-
      135 AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Limitation.--Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2020 for the Air Force may be obligated or 
expended to retire, or prepare to retire, any RC-135 aircraft until a 
period of 60 days has elapsed following the date on which the Secretary 
of Defense certifies to the congressional defense committees that--
        (1) technologies other than the RC-135 aircraft provide 
    capacity and capabilities equivalent to the capacity and 
    capabilities of the RC-135 aircraft; and
        (2) the capacity and capabilities of such other technologies 
    meet the requirements of combatant commanders with respect to 
    indications and warning, intelligence preparation of the 
    operational environment, and direct support for kinetic and 
    nonkinetic operations.
    (b) Exception.--The limitation in subsection (a) shall not apply to 
individual RC-135 aircraft that the Secretary of the Air Force 
determines, on a case-by-case basis, to be no longer mission capable 
because of mishaps, other damage, or being uneconomical to repair.
    SEC. 149. AIR FORCE AGGRESSOR SQUADRON MODERNIZATION.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) it is critical that the Air Force has the capability to 
    train against an advanced air adversary in order to be prepared for 
    conflicts against a modern enemy force, and that in order to have 
    this capability, the Air Force must have access to an advanced 
    adversary force prior to United States adversaries fielding a 5th-
    generation operational capability; and
        (2) the Air Force's plan to use low-rate initial production F-
    35As as aggressor aircraft reflects a recognition of the need to 
    field a modernized aggressor fleet.
    (b) Report.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Air Force may not 
    transfer any low-rate initial production F-35 aircraft for use as 
    aggressor aircraft until the Chief of Staff of the Air Force 
    submits to the congressional defense committees a comprehensive 
    plan and report on the strategy for modernizing its organic 
    aggressor fleet.
        (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following elements:
            (A) Potential locations for F-35A aggressor aircraft, 
        including an analysis of installations that--
                (i) have the size and availability of airspace 
            necessary to meet flying operations requirements;
                (ii) have sufficient capacity and availability of range 
            space;
                (iii) are capable of hosting advanced-threat training 
            exercises; and
                (iv) meet or require minimal addition to the 
            environmental requirements associated with the basing 
            action.
            (B) An analysis of the potential cost and benefits of 
        expanding aggressor squadrons currently operating 18 Primary 
        Assigned Aircraft (PAA) to a level of 24 PAA each.
            (C) An analysis of the cost and timelines associated with 
        modernizing the current Air Force aggressor squadrons to 
        include upgrading aircraft radar, infrared search-and-track 
        systems, radar warning receiver, tactical datalink, threat-
        representative jamming pods, and other upgrades necessary to 
        provide a realistic advanced adversary threat.
    SEC. 150. AIR FORCE PLAN FOR COMBAT RESCUE HELICOPTER FIELDING.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that, given 
delays to Operational Loss Replacement (OLR) program fielding and the 
on-time fielding of Combat Rescue Helicopter (CRH), the Air National 
Guard should retain additional HH-60G helicopters at Air National Guard 
locations to meet their recommended primary aircraft authorized (PAA) 
per the Air Force's June 2018 report on Air National Guard HH-60 
requirements.
    (b) Report on Fielding Plan.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 45 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit 
    to the congressional defense committees a report on its fielding 
    plan for the CRH program.
        (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following elements:
            (A) A description of the differences in capabilities 
        between the HH-60G, OLR, and CRH helicopters.
            (B) A description of the costs and risks associated with 
        changing the CRH fielding plan to reduce or eliminate inventory 
        shortfalls.
            (C) A description of the measures for accelerating the 
        program available within the current contract.
            (D) A description of the operational risks and benefits 
        associated with fielding the CRH to the active component first, 
        including--
                (i) how the differing fielding plan may affect 
            deployment schedules;
                (ii) what capabilities active-component units deploying 
            with the CRH will have that reserve component units 
            deploying with OLR will not; and
                (iii) an analysis of the potential costs and benefits 
            that could result from accelerating CRH fielding to all 
            units through additional funding in the future years 
            defense program.
    (c) Report on Training Plan.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 45 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit 
    to the congressional defense committees a report on the plan to 
    sustain training for initial-entry reserve component HH-60G pilots 
    once the active component of the Air Force has received all of its 
    CRH helicopters.
        (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following elements:
            (A) Projected reserve component aircrew initial HH-60G/OLR 
        qualification training requirements, by year.
            (B) The number of legacy HH-60G/OLR helicopters required to 
        continue providing initial HH-60G qualification training 
        through the 150th Special Operations Wing at Kirtland Air Force 
        Base.
            (C) The number of personnel required to continue providing 
        initial HH-60G/OLR qualification training through the 150th 
        Special Operations Wing at Kirtland Air Force Base.
            (D) The number of flying hours required per pilot to 
        perform ``differences training'' at home station for initial 
        entry HH-60 pilots receiving CRH training at Kirtland Air Force 
        Base to become qualified in the HH-60G/OLR at their home 
        station.
            (E) The projected effect of using local flying training 
        hours at reserve component units on overall unit training 
        readiness and ability to meet Ready Aircrew Program 
        requirements.
    SEC. 151. REPORT ON FEASIBILITY OF MULTIYEAR CONTRACT FOR 
      PROCUREMENT OF JASSM-ER MISSILES.
    (a) In General.--Not later than March 31, 2020, the Secretary of 
the Air Force shall submit a report to the congressional defense 
committees assessing the feasibility of entering into a multiyear 
contract for procurement of JASSM-ER missiles starting in fiscal year 
2022.
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following elements:
        (1) An initial assessment of cost savings to the Air Force from 
    a multiyear contract.
        (2) An analysis of at least two different multiyear contract 
    options that vary in either duration or quantity, at least one of 
    which assumes a maximum procurement of 550 missiles per year for 5 
    years.
        (3) An assessment of how a multiyear contract will impact the 
    industrial base.
        (4) An assessment of how a multiyear contract will impact the 
    Long Range Anti-Ship Missile.
        (5) An assessment of how a multiyear contract will impact the 
    ability of the Air Force to develop additional capabilities for the 
    JASSM-ER missile.
    SEC. 152. REPORT ON AIRCRAFT FLEET OF THE CIVIL AIR PATROL.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the aircraft fleet of the 
Civil Air Patrol.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
an assessment of each of the following:
        (1) Whether the number of aircraft, types of aircraft, and 
    operating locations that comprise the Civil Air Patrol fleet are 
    suitable for the missions and responsibilities assigned to the 
    Civil Air Patrol, including--
            (A) flight proficiency and training;
            (B) operational mission training; and
            (C) support for cadet orientation and cadet flight training 
        programs in the Civil Air Patrol wing of each State.
        (2) The ideal overall size of the Civil Air Patrol aircraft 
    fleet, including a description of the factors used to determine 
    that ideal size.
        (3) The process used by the Civil Air Patrol and the Air Force 
    to determine the number and location of aircraft operating 
    locations and whether State Civil Air Patrol wing commanders are 
    appropriately involved in that process.
        (4) The process used by the Civil Air Patrol, the Air Force, 
    and other relevant entities to determine the type and number of 
    aircraft that are needed to support the emergency, operational, and 
    training missions of the Civil Air Patrol.
    SEC. 153. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE LIGHT ATTACK AIRCRAFT INITIATIVE 
      OF THE AIR FORCE.
    It is the sense of the Congress that--
        (1) The United States Special Operations Command has a mission 
    requirement to support foreign internal defense training and a 
    light attack aircraft platform could potentially facilitate meeting 
    that requirement.
        (2) The Secretary of the Air Force should coordinate with the 
    Commander of the United States Special Operations Command to assess 
    how general purpose forces and special operations forces can 
    leverage the light attack aircraft phase three experimentation 
    activities of the Air Force.
        (3) The Secretary of the Air Force, in coordination with the 
    Commander of the United States Special Operations Command, should 
    explore options for coordinating light attack aircraft experiment 
    activities between general purpose forces and special operations 
    forces to maximize efficiency and effectiveness and to further the 
    mission requirements of both forces, including options to transfer 
    a portion of funds authorized for Air Force light attack aircraft 
    experiments to procure aircraft for supporting the combat air 
    advisor mission of the Special Operations Command.

       Subtitle E--Defense-wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

    SEC. 161. ECONOMIC ORDER QUANTITY CONTRACTING AND BUY-TO-BUDGET 
      ACQUISITION FOR F-35 AIRCRAFT PROGRAM.
    (a) Economic Order Quantity Contract Authority.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to paragraphs (2) through (4), from 
    amounts made available for obligation under the F-35 aircraft 
    program, the Secretary of Defense may enter into one or more 
    contracts, beginning with the fiscal year 2020 program year, for 
    the procurement of economic order quantities of material and 
    equipment that has completed formal hardware qualification testing 
    for the F-35 aircraft program for use in procurement contracts to 
    be awarded for such program during fiscal years 2021, 2022, and 
    2023.
        (2) Limitation.--The total amount obligated under all contracts 
    entered into under paragraph (1) shall not exceed $574,000,000.
        (3) Preliminary findings.--Before entering into a contract 
    under paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense shall make each of 
    the following findings with respect to such contract:
            (A) The use of such a contract will result in significant 
        savings of the total anticipated costs of carrying out the 
        program through annual contracts.
            (B) The minimum need for the property to be procured is 
        expected to remain substantially unchanged during the 
        contemplated contract period in terms of production rate, 
        procurement rate, and total quantities.
            (C) There is a reasonable expectation that, throughout the 
        contemplated contract period, the Secretary will request 
        funding for the contract at the level required to avoid 
        contract cancellation.
            (D) That there is a stable, certified, and qualified design 
        for the property to be procured and that the technical risks 
        and redesign risks associated with such property are low.
            (E) The estimates of both the cost of the contract and the 
        anticipated cost avoidance through the use of an economic order 
        quantity contract are realistic.
            (F) Entering into the contract will promote the national 
        security interests of the United States.
        (4) Certification requirement.--The Secretary of Defense may 
    not enter into a contract under paragraph (1) until a period of 30 
    days has elapsed following the date on which the Secretary 
    certifies to the congressional defense committees, in writing, that 
    each of the following conditions is satisfied:
            (A) A sufficient number of end items of the system being 
        acquired under such contract have been delivered at or within 
        the most recently available estimates of the program 
        acquisition unit cost or procurement unit cost for such system 
        to determine that the estimates of the unit costs are 
        realistic.
            (B) During the fiscal year in which such contract is to be 
        awarded, sufficient funds will be available to perform the 
        contract in such fiscal year, and the future-years defense 
        program submitted to Congress under section 221 of title 10, 
        United States Code, for that fiscal year will include the 
        funding required to execute the program without cancellation.
            (C) The contract is a fixed-price type contract.
            (D) The proposed contract provides for production at not 
        less than minimum economic rates given the existing tooling and 
        facilities.
            (E) The Secretary has determined that each of the 
        conditions described in subparagraphs (A) through (F) of 
        paragraph (3) will be met by such contract and has provided the 
        basis for such determination to the congressional defense 
        committees.
    (b) Buy-to-budget Acquisition.--Subject to section 2308 of title 
10, United States Code, the Secretary of Defense may procure a quantity 
of F-35 aircraft in excess of the quantity authorized by this Act.
    SEC. 162. RELIEF FROM CONTRACTORS FOR FAILURE TO DELIVER READY-FOR-
      ISSUE SPARE PARTS FOR THE F-35 AIRCRAFT PROGRAM.
    (a) Requirement to Seek Relief.--Consistent with the findings and 
recommendations of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense 
in the report titled ``Audit of F-35 Ready-For-Issue Spare Parts and 
Sustainment Performance Incentive Fees'' (DODIG-2019-094) and dated 
June 13, 2019, the Secretary of Defense shall seek relief, as described 
in subsection (b), from prime contractors that delivered noncompliant 
ready-for-issue spare parts pursuant a contract under the F-35 aircraft 
program.
    (b) Relief Described.--The relief sought by the Secretary of 
Defense under subsection (a) may include the following: 
        (1) Specific performance.
        (2) Compensation for costs incurred by the Department of 
    Defense as a result of the contractor's failure to deliver 
    compliant ready-for-issue spare parts under the contract.
        (3) Any other form of remediation or compensation the Secretary 
    determines to be appropriate.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed--
        (1) to alter the terms of a contract under the F-35 aircraft 
    program; or
        (2) to authorize the Secretary of Defense to seek forms of 
    relief beyond those otherwise available under law.
    SEC. 163. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR REALLOCATION OF 
      TURKISH F-35A AIRCRAFT TO THE UNITED STATES.
    (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2020 for the Air 
Force may be obligated or expended to procure a covered F-35A aircraft 
for the United States Air Force until a period of 15 days has elapsed 
following the date on which the Secretary of Defense certifies to the 
congressional defense committees that--
        (1) ancillary mission equipment, initial spare parts and 
    materials, technical data, and publications will be procured for 
    each covered F-35A aircraft delivered to the Air Force; and
        (2) each such aircraft will be delivered to the Air Force in a 
    common configuration that may be operated and integrated within the 
    fleet of F-35A aircraft of the Air Force.
    (b) Covered F-35A Aircraft Defined.--In this section, the term 
``covered F-35A aircraft'' means an F-35A aircraft previously procured 
by or on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Turkey in F-35 
production lot 12, 13, or 14.
    SEC. 164. REQUIREMENT TO ESTABLISH THE USE OF AN AGILE DEVOPS 
      SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT SOLUTION AS AN ALTERNATIVE FOR JOINT STRIKE 
      FIGHTER AUTONOMIC LOGISTICS INFORMATION SYSTEM.
    (a) Competitive Analysis.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a 
competitive analysis of the performance and design architecture 
enhancement efforts between the currently fielded Autonomic logistics 
Information System, Autonomic Logistics Information System-Next, and 
the Department of the Air Force Agile Development Operations Madhatter 
initiative efforts, including system technology transition 
opportunities and timelines.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than September 30, 2020, the Secretary of 
Defense shall provide the congressional defense committees a briefing 
on the findings of the competitive analysis carried out under 
subsection (a).
    SEC. 165. F-35 SUSTAINMENT COST.
    (a) Quarterly Update.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment shall include in the quarterly report 
required under section 155 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232)--
        (1) sustainment cost data related to the F-35 program, 
    including a comparison in itemized format of the cost of legacy 
    aircraft and the cost of the F-35 program, based on a standardized 
    set of criteria; and
        (2) an evaluation and metrics on the extent to which the goals 
    developed pursuant to subsection (b) are being achieved.
    (b) Cost Reduction Plan.--
        (1) In general.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition 
    and Sustainment shall develop and implement a plan for achieving 
    significant reductions in the costs to operate, maintain, and 
    sustain the F-35 system.
        (2) Elements.--The plan required under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following elements:
            (A) Specific changes in the management and execution of 
        operation and support (O&S;) cost elements to engender 
        continuous and measurable process improvements.
            (B) Specific actions the Department will implement in the 
        near, mid, and long terms to reduce O&S; costs.
            (C) Firm and achievable timelines for implementing the 
        specific actions and process changes.
        (3) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report on the baseline plan 
    developed pursuant to paragraph (1).
    SEC. 166. REPORTS ON THE PROGRESS AND PERFORMANCE OF THE F-35 
      AIRCRAFT PROGRAM.
    (a) F-35 Block 4 and Continuous Capability Development and Delivery 
Program.--The Secretary of Defense shall include with the annual report 
required by section 224(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2059) an integrated 
master schedule and past performance assessment for each planned phase 
of the F-35 Block 4 Upgrade and Continuous Capability Development and 
Delivery Program.
    (b) Comptroller General Reports.--
        (1) Annual report required.--Not later than 30 days after the 
    date on which the budget of the President is submitted to Congress 
    under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, for each of 
    fiscal years 2021 through 2025, the Comptroller General of the 
    United States shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
    a report on the F-35 aircraft program.
        (2) Elements.--Each report under paragraph (1) shall include, 
    with respect to the F-35 aircraft program, the following:
            (A) An assessment of the progress of manufacturing 
        processes improvement under the program.
            (B) The progress and results of the F-35 Block 4 Upgrade 
        and Continuous Capability Development and Delivery Program and 
        other follow-on modernization development and testing efforts.
            (C) An assessment of the Department's schedule for 
        delivering software upgrades in six-month, scheduled 
        increments.
            (D) The progress and results of any other significant 
        hardware development and fielding efforts necessary for the F-
        35 Block 4 Upgrade and Continuous Capability Development and 
        Delivery Program.
            (E) Any other issues the Comptroller General determines to 
        be appropriate.
    (c) F-35 Block 4 Defined.--In this section, the term ``F-35 Block 4 
Upgrade and Continuous Capability Development and Delivery Program'' 
means Block 4 capability upgrades for the F-35 aircraft program as 
described in the Selected Acquisition Report for the program submitted 
to Congress in March 2019, pursuant to section 2432 of title 10, United 
States Code.
    SEC. 167. OTHER REPORTS ON THE F-35 AIRCRAFT PROGRAM.
    (a) Report on F-35 Reliability and Maintainability Metrics.--The 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on the reliability and maintainability metrics for 
the F-35 aircraft. The report shall include the following:
        (1) The results of a review and assessment, conducted by the 
    program office for the F-35 aircraft program, of the reliability 
    and maintainability metrics for the aircraft as set forth in the 
    most recent operational requirements document for the program.
        (2) A determination of whether the reliability and 
    maintainability metrics for the aircraft, as set forth in the most 
    recent operational requirements document for the program, are 
    feasible and attainable, and what changes, if any, will be made to 
    update the metrics.
        (3) A certification that the program office for the F-35 
    aircraft program has revised the reliability and maintainability 
    improvement plan for the aircraft--
            (A) to identify specific and measurable reliability and 
        maintainability objectives in the improvement plan guidance; 
        and
            (B) to identify and document which projects included in the 
        improvement plan will achieve the objectives identified under 
        subparagraph (A).
    (b) Report on F-35 Block 4 Upgrade and Continuous Capability 
Development and Delivery Program.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report on the F-35 Block 4 
    Upgrade and Continuous Capability Development and Delivery Program. 
    The report shall include the following:
            (A) The results of the independent cost estimate for the 
        Program conducted by the Director of Cost Assessment and 
        Program Evaluation.
            (B) An approved test and evaluation master plan that 
        addresses the adequacy of testing resources, testing aircraft 
        shortfalls, and testing funding.
            (C) A review of the feasibility and schedule of the 
        continuous capability development and delivery strategy for 
        fielding technologies under the Program as conducted by the 
        Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.
        (2) F-35 block 4 defined.--In this subsection, the term ``F-35 
    Block 4 Upgrade and Continuous Capability Development and Delivery 
    Program'' has the meaning given that term in section 166.
    (c) Report on F-35 Autonomic Logistics Information System.--The 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on the autonomic logistics information system of 
the F-35 aircraft. The report shall include a description of each of 
the following:
        (1) All shortfalls, capability gaps, and deficiencies in the 
    system that have been identified as of the date of the enactment of 
    this Act.
        (2) The strategy and performance requirements that will be 
    implemented to improve the system.
        (3) The strategy, implementation plan, schedule, and estimated 
    costs of developing and fielding--
            (A) the next generation of the system; or
            (B) future increments of the system.
    (d) F-35 Life-cycle Cost Estimates.--
        (1) Joint cost estimate.--The Secretary of the Air Force and 
    the Secretary of the Navy shall jointly develop a joint service 
    cost estimate for the life-cycle costs of the F-35 aircraft 
    program.
        (2) Independent cost estimate.--The Director of Cost Assessment 
    and Program Evaluation shall develop an independent cost estimate 
    for the life-cycle costs of the F-35 aircraft program.
    (e) Deadline for Submittal.--The reports required under subsections 
(a) through (d) shall be submitted to the congressional defense 
committees not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
    SEC. 168. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR COMMUNICATIONS 
      SYSTEMS LACKING CERTAIN RESILIENCY FEATURES.
    (a) In General.--Except as provided under subsection (b), none of 
the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of Defense may be 
obligated or expended for the procurement of a current or future 
Department of Defense communications program of record, and the 
Department may not otherwise procure a current or future communications 
program of record, unless the communications equipment--
        (1) mitigates geolocation of a transmission that would allow a 
    like echelon enemy force to target the user;
        (2) securely communicates classified information in a contested 
    communications environment that includes operationally 
    representative jamming;
        (3) reduces, within two years of continued development and 
    upgrades, electronic signature and susceptibility to geolocation by 
    using low probability of intercept/detect (LPI/LPD) waveforms, or 
    other capability that would provide the same resiliency on the 
    battlefield; and
        (4) utilizes a waveform that is either made available through 
    the Department of Defense Waveform Information Repository, or is a 
    commercial off the shelf (COTS) waveform available for government 
    licensing with waveform analysis through the Joint Tactical 
    Networking Center (JTNC) Tactical Communications Marketplace.
    (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of a military department may waive the 
requirement under subsection (a) with respect to a communications 
system upon certifying to the congressional defense committees that the 
system's intended use is not for contested environments or will meet 
the requirement when operated as a component of an integrated network.
    SEC. 169. REPEAL OF TACTICAL UNMANNED VEHICLE COMMON DATA LINK 
      REQUIREMENT.
    (a) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than February 1, 2020, the Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit 
    to the congressional defense committees a report on the status of 
    the Common Data Link program and plans to meet new and emerging 
    manned and unmanned intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance 
    (ISR) vehicle secure and interoperable communication requirements.
        (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following elements:
            (A) A description of each Common Data Link (CDL) waveform 
        in use and which platforms or systems utilize each CDL 
        waveform.
            (B) A list of manned and unmanned ISR platforms or systems 
        in development requiring networked, secure, low latency 
        communications, and an assessment of the suitability of CDL to 
        meet the requirements of each planned program.
            (C) A description of in-progress or planned technology 
        development efforts to address networking requirements for 
        manned and unmanned ISR systems operating in contested and 
        denied environments.
    (b) Repeal.--Section 157 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 1667) is hereby 
repealed.

         TITLE II--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.

     Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 211. Program on enhancement of preparation of dependents of members 
          of Armed Forces for careers in science, technology, 
          engineering, and mathematics.
Sec. 212. Updates to the Department of Defense personnel management 
          authority to attract experts in science and engineering.
Sec. 213. Establishment of joint reserve detachment of the Defense 
          Innovation Unit.
Sec. 214. Research and educational programs and activities for 
          Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Minority-
          Serving Institutions of Higher Education.
Sec. 215. Modification of authority for prizes for advanced technology 
          achievements.
Sec. 216. Joint hypersonics transition office.
Sec. 217. Modification of proof of concept commercialization program.
Sec. 218. Modification of authority and addition of technology areas for 
          expedited access to technical talent.
Sec. 219. Expansion of coordination in support of national security 
          innovation and entrepreneurial education.
Sec. 220. Modification of defense quantum information science and 
          technology research and development program.
Sec. 221. Understanding of investments in artificial intelligence and 
          development of capabilities by adversaries.
Sec. 222. Advisory role of JASON scientific advisory group.
Sec. 223. Direct Air Capture and Blue Carbon Removal Technology Program.
Sec. 224. Requiring defense microelectronics products and services meet 
          trusted supply chain and operational security standards.
Sec. 225. Development and acquisition strategy to procure secure, low 
          probability of detection data link network capability.
Sec. 226. Establishment of secure next-generation wireless network (5G) 
          infrastructure for the Nevada Test and Training Range and base 
          infrastructure.
Sec. 227. Administration of manufacturing innovation institutes funded 
          by the Department of Defense.
Sec. 228. Research program on foreign malign influence operations.
Sec. 229. Diversification of the research and engineering workforce of 
          the Department of Defense.
Sec. 230. Policy on the talent management of digital expertise and 
          software professionals.
Sec. 231. Digital engineering capability to automate testing and 
          evaluation.
Sec. 232. Process to align policy formulation and emerging technology 
          development.
Sec. 233. Improvement of the Strategic Capabilities Office of the 
          Department of Defense.
Sec. 234. Pilot program on enhanced civics education.
Sec. 235. Technology and national security fellowship.
Sec. 236. Documentation relating to the Advanced Battle Management 
          System.
Sec. 237. Sensor data integration for fifth generation aircraft.
Sec. 238. Sense of Congress on future vertical lift technologies.
Sec. 239. Use of funds for Strategic Environmental Research Program, 
          Environmental Security Technical Certification Program, and 
          Operational Energy Capability Improvement.
Sec. 240. Limitation and report on Indirect Fire Protection Capability 
          Increment 2 capability.

              Subtitle C--Plans, Reports, and Other Matters

Sec. 251. Master plan for implementation of authorities relating to 
          science and technology reinvention laboratories.
Sec. 252. Infrastructure to support research, development, test, and 
          evaluation missions.
Sec. 253. Energetics plan.
Sec. 254. Strategy and implementation plan for fifth generation 
          information and communications technologies.
Sec. 255. Department-wide software science and technology strategy.
Sec. 256. Artificial intelligence education strategy.
Sec. 257. Cyber science and technology activities roadmap and reports.
Sec. 258. Report on B-52 commercial engine replacement program.
Sec. 259. Commercial edge computing technologies and best practices for 
          Department of Defense warfighting systems.
Sec. 260. Biannual report on the Joint Artificial Intelligence Center.
Sec. 261. Quarterly updates on the Optionally Manned Fighting Vehicle 
          program.
Sec. 262. National Study on Defense Research At Historically Black 
          Colleges and Universities and Other Minority Institutions.
Sec. 263. Study on national security emerging biotechnologies for the 
          Department of Defense.
Sec. 264. Independent study on optimizing resources allocated to 
          Combating Terrorism Technical Support Office.
Sec. 265. Independent assessment of electronic warfare plans and 
          programs.
Sec. 266. Technical correction to Global Research Watch Program.

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

    SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, 
test, and evaluation, as specified in the funding table in section 
4201.

    Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

    SEC. 211. PROGRAM ON ENHANCEMENT OF PREPARATION OF DEPENDENTS OF 
      MEMBERS OF ARMED FORCES FOR CAREERS IN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, 
      ENGINEERING, AND MATHEMATICS.
    (a) Program Required.--Chapter 111 of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended by inserting after section 2192a the following new section:
``Sec. 2192b. Program on enhancement of preparation of dependents of 
     members of armed forces for careers in science, technology, 
     engineering, and mathematics
    ``(a) Program Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a 
program to--
        ``(1) enhance the preparation of students at covered schools 
    for careers in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics; 
    and
        ``(2) provide assistance to teachers at covered schools to 
    enhance preparation described in paragraph (1).
    ``(b) Coordination.--In carrying out the program, the Secretary 
shall coordinate with the following:
        ``(1) The Secretaries of the military departments.
        ``(2) The Secretary of Education.
        ``(3) The National Science Foundation.
        ``(4) Other organizations as the Secretary of Defense considers 
    appropriate.
    ``(c) Activities.--Activities under the program may include the 
following:
        ``(1) Establishment of targeted internships and cooperative 
    research opportunities at defense laboratories and other technical 
    centers for students and teachers at covered schools.
        ``(2) Establishment of scholarships and fellowships for 
    students at covered schools.
        ``(3) Efforts and activities that improve the quality of 
    science, technology, engineering, and mathematics educational and 
    training opportunities for students and teachers at covered 
    schools, including with respect to improving the development of 
    curricula at covered schools.
        ``(4) Development of travel opportunities, demonstrations, 
    mentoring programs, and informal science education for students and 
    teachers at covered schools.
    ``(d) Metrics.--The Secretary shall establish outcome-based metrics 
and internal and external assessments to evaluate the merits and 
benefits of activities conducted under the program with respect to the 
needs of the Department of Defense.
    ``(e) Covered Schools Defined.--In this section, the term `covered 
schools' means elementary or secondary schools at which the Secretary 
determines a significant number of dependents of members of the armed 
forces are enrolled.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
2192a the following new item:

``2192b. Program on enhancement of preparation of dependents of members 
          of armed forces for careers in science, technology, 
          engineering, and mathematics.''.

    (c) Conforming Repeal.--Section 233 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
(Public Law 113-291; 10 U.S.C. 2193a note) is repealed.
    SEC. 212. UPDATES TO THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT 
      AUTHORITY TO ATTRACT EXPERTS IN SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING.
    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 1599h of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
        ``(6) Joint artificial intelligence center.--The Director of 
    the Joint Artificial Intelligence Center may carry out a program of 
    personnel management authority provided in subsection (b) in order 
    to facilitate recruitment of eminent experts in science or 
    engineering for the Center. The authority to carry out the program 
    under this paragraph shall terminate on December 31, 2024.''.
    (b) Scope of Appointment Authority.--Subsection (b)(1) of such 
section is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``and'' at the end;
        (2) in subparagraph (E), by adding ``and'' at the end; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(F) in the case of the Joint Artificial Intelligence 
        Center, appoint scientists and engineers to a total of not more 
        than 5 scientific and engineering positions in the Center;''.
    (c) Extension of Terms of Appointment.--Subsection (c)(2) of such 
section is amended by striking ``or the Defense Innovation Unit 
Experimental'' and inserting ``the Defense Innovation Unit, or the 
Joint Artificial Intelligence Center''.
    (d) Update to Organizational Name.--Such section is further 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(5)--
            (A) in the subsection heading by striking ``DIUX'' and 
        inserting ``DIU''; and
            (B) by striking ``Experimental''; and
        (2) in subsection (b)(1)(E), by striking ``Experimental''.
    SEC. 213. ESTABLISHMENT OF JOINT RESERVE DETACHMENT OF THE DEFENSE 
      INNOVATION UNIT.
    (a) In General.--
        (1) Establishment of joint reserve detachment of the defense 
    innovation unit.--Chapter 139 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by inserting after section 2358a the following new section:
``Sec. 2358b. Joint reserve detachment of the Defense Innovation Unit
    ``(a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
with the Secretaries of the military departments, may establish a joint 
reserve detachment (referred to in this section as the `Detachment') 
composed of members of the reserve components described in subsection 
(b) to be assigned to each office of the Defense Innovation Unit to--
        ``(1) support engagement and collaboration with private-sector 
    industry and the community surrounding the location of such office; 
    and
        ``(2) to accelerate the use and adoption of commercially-
    developed technologies for national security purposes.
    ``(b) Members.--Each Secretary of a military department shall 
select for the Detachment, and make efforts to retain, members of the 
reserve components who possess relevant private-sector experience in 
the fields of business, acquisition, intelligence, engineering, 
technology transfer, science, mathematics, program management, 
logistics, cybersecurity, or such other fields as determined by the 
Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.
    ``(c) Duties.--The Detachment shall have the following duties:
        ``(1) Providing the Department of Defense with--
            ``(A) expertise on and analysis of commercially-developed 
        technologies;
            ``(B) commercially-developed technologies to be used as 
        alternatives for technologies in use by the Department; and
            ``(C) opportunities for greater engagement and 
        collaboration between the Department and private-sector 
        industry on innovative technologies.
        ``(2) On an ongoing basis--
            ``(A) partnering with the military departments, the 
        combatant commands, and other Department of Defense 
        organizations to--
                ``(i) identify and rapidly prototype commercially-
            developed technologies; and
                ``(ii) use alternative contracting mechanisms to 
            procure such technologies;
            ``(B) increasing awareness of--
                ``(i) the work of the Defense Innovation Unit; and
                ``(ii) the technology requirements of the Department of 
            Defense as identified in the National Defense Science and 
            Technology Strategy developed under section 218 of the John 
            S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
            Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1679); and
            ``(C) using the investment in research and development made 
        by private-sector industry in assessing and developing dual-use 
        technologies.
        ``(3) Carrying out other activities as directed by the Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.
    ``(d) Joint Duty.--Assignment to a Detachment shall not qualify as 
a joint duty assignment, as defined in section 668(b)(1) of title 10, 
United States Code, unless approved by the Secretary of Defense.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
    section 2358a the following new item:

``2358b. Joint reserve detachment of the Defense Innovation Unit.''.

    (b) Implementation Report.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Research and Engineering, in consultation with the Director of the 
Defense Innovation Unit and the Secretaries of the military 
departments, shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report that includes--
        (1) an organizational plan and the estimated costs for 
    establishing the joint reserve detachment required under section 
    2358b of title 10, United States Code (as added by subsection (a)); 
    and
        (2) a timeline specifying when such detachment will attain 
    initial operational capability and full operational capability, 
    respectively.
    SEC. 214. RESEARCH AND EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES FOR 
      HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES AND MINORITY-SERVING 
      INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION.
    Section 2362 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections (e) 
    and (f), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(d) Incentives.--The Secretary of Defense may develop incentives 
to encourage research and educational collaborations between covered 
educational institutions and other institutions of higher education.''.
    SEC. 215. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR PRIZES FOR ADVANCED 
      TECHNOLOGY ACHIEVEMENTS.
    Section 2374a(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research and 
Engineering'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Research 
and Engineering, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
Sustainment,''.
    SEC. 216. JOINT HYPERSONICS TRANSITION OFFICE.
    Section 218 of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note) is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``the program required under 
    subsection (b), and shall'' and inserting ``the program and 
    activities described in subsections (b) through (f), and shall'';
        (2) by redesignating subsections (c) through (e) as subsections 
    (d) through (f), respectively;
        (3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
    subsection (c):
    ``(c) University Expertise.--
        ``(1) Arrangement with institutions of higher education.--Using 
    the authority specified in section 217 of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 10 
    U.S.C. 2358 note) or another similar authority, the Office shall 
    seek to enter into an arrangement with one or more institutions of 
    higher education (as defined in section 101 of the Higher Education 
    Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001)) under which such institutions may 
    provide the Office with--
            ``(A) access to research, technology development, and 
        workforce development expertise to support the mission of the 
        Office; and
            ``(B) foundational and applied hypersonic research, 
        development, and workforce support in areas that the Office 
        determines to be relevant for the Department of Defense.
        ``(2) Availability of information.--The Office shall ensure 
    that the results of any research and reports produced pursuant to 
    an arrangement under paragraph (1) are made available to the 
    Federal Government, the private sector, academia, and international 
    partners consistent with appropriate security classification 
    guidance.'';
        (4) in subsection (d), as so redesignated--
            (A) in paragraph (4), by striking the comma before the 
        period; and
            (B) in paragraph (5), by striking ``certified under 
        subsection (e) as being consistent with the roadmap under 
        subsection (d)'' and inserting ``certified under subsection (f) 
        as being consistent with the roadmap under subsection (e)'';
        (5) in subsection (e), as so redesignated, by adding at the end 
    the following new paragraph:
        ``(4) Submittal to congress.--
            ``(A) Initial submission.--Not later than 180 days after 
        the date of the enactment of this paragraph, the Secretary of 
        Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
        the most recent roadmap developed under paragraph (1).
            ``(B) Subsequent submissions.--The Secretary of Defense 
        shall submit to the congressional defense committees each 
        roadmap revised under paragraph (1) together with the budget 
        submitted to Congress under section 1105 of title 31, United 
        States Code, for the fiscal year concerned.''; and
        (6) in subsection (f), as so redesignated--
            (A) by striking ``subsection (d)'' each place it appears 
        and inserting ``subsection (e)''; and
            (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``2016'' and inserting 
        ``2026''.
    SEC. 217. MODIFICATION OF PROOF OF CONCEPT COMMERCIALIZATION 
      PROGRAM.
    (a) Extension of Program.--Section 1603(g) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 10 U.S.C. 
2359 note) is amended by striking ``2019'' and inserting ``2024''.
    (b) Additional Improvements.--Section 1603 of such Act, as amended 
by subsection (a), is further amended--
        (1) in the section heading, by inserting ``of dual-use 
    technology'' after ``commercialization'';
        (2) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by inserting ``of Dual-Use Technology'' after 
        ``Commercialization''; and
            (B) by inserting ``with a focus on priority defense 
        technology areas that attract public and private sector 
        funding, as well as private sector investment capital, 
        including from venture capital firms in the United States,'' 
        before ``in accordance'';
        (3) in subsection (c)(4)(A)(iv), by inserting ``, which may 
    include access to venture capital'' after ``award'';
        (4) by striking subsection (d);
        (5) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (d);
        (6) by inserting after subsection (d), as so redesignated, the 
    following new subsection (e):
    ``(e) Authorities.--In carrying out this section, the Secretary may 
use the following authorities:
        ``(1) Section 1599g of title 10 of the United States Code, 
    relating to public-private talent exchanges.
        ``(2) Section 2368 of such title, relating to Centers for 
    Science, Technology, and Engineering Partnerships.
        ``(3) Section 2374a of such title, relating to prizes for 
    advanced technology achievements.
        ``(4) Section 2474 of such title, relating to Centers of 
    Industrial and Technical Excellence.
        ``(5) Section 2521 of such title, relating to the Manufacturing 
    Technology Program.
        ``(6) Section 225 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 10 U.S.C. 2359 note).
        ``(7) Section 1711 of such Act (Public Law 115-91; 10 U.S.C. 
    2505 note), relating to a pilot program on strengthening 
    manufacturing in the defense industrial base.
        ``(8) Section 12 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation 
    Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3710a) and section 6305 of title 31, United 
    States Code, relating to cooperative research and development 
    agreements.''.
        (7) by striking subsection (f); and
        (8) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (f).
    SEC. 218. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY AND ADDITION OF TECHNOLOGY 
      AREAS FOR EXPEDITED ACCESS TO TECHNICAL TALENT.
    (a) Modification of Authority.--Subsection (a)(1) of section 217 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 
115-91; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note) is amended by striking ``The Secretary of 
Defense shall, acting through the secretaries of the military 
departments, establish'' and inserting ``Not later than 180 days after 
the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2020, the Secretary of Defense shall direct the secretaries 
of the military departments to establish''.
    (b) Additional Technology Areas.--Subsection (e) of such section is 
amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraph (27) as paragraph (30); and
        (2) by inserting after paragraph (26) the following new 
    paragraph (27):
        ``(27) Rapid prototyping.
        ``(28) Infrastructure resilience.
        ``(29) Hypersonics.''.
    SEC. 219. EXPANSION OF COORDINATION IN SUPPORT OF NATIONAL SECURITY 
      INNOVATION AND ENTREPRENEURIAL EDUCATION.
    Section 225(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 10 U.S.C. 2359 note) is amended by adding 
at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(18) The Lab-Embedded Entrepreneurship Programs of the 
    Department of Energy.''.
    SEC. 220. MODIFICATION OF DEFENSE QUANTUM INFORMATION SCIENCE AND 
      TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.
    Section 234 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note) is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)--
            (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``private sector 
        entities'' and inserting ``private sector and international 
        entities''; and
            (B) in paragraph (6), by striking ``facilities and 
        infrastructure'' and inserting ``facilities, workforce, and 
        infrastructure'';
        (2) in subsection (c)--
            (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``quantum sciences;'' and 
        inserting ``quantum information sciences, including through 
        consultation with--
            ``(A) the National Quantum Coordination Office;
            ``(B) the subcommittee on Quantum Information Science of 
        the National Science and Technology Council;
            ``(C) other organizations and elements of the Department of 
        Defense;
            ``(D) other Federal agencies; and
            ``(E) appropriate private sector organizations;'';
            (B) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs 
        (6) and (7), respectively;
            (C) by inserting after paragraph (2), the following new 
        paragraphs:
        ``(3) in consultation with the entities listed in paragraph 
    (2), develop plans for--
            ``(A) the development of the quantum information science 
        and technology workforce;
            ``(B) enhancing awareness of quantum information science 
        and technology;
            ``(C) reducing the risk of cybersecurity threats posed by 
        quantum information science technology; and
            ``(D) development of ethical guidelines for the use of 
        quantum information science technology;
        ``(4) in consultation with the National Institute of Standards 
    and Technology and other appropriate Federal entities, develop a 
    quantum information science taxonomy and standards and requirements 
    for quantum information technology;
        ``(5) support efforts to increase the technology readiness 
    level of quantum information science technologies under development 
    in the United States;'';
            (D) in paragraph (6), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``quantum science'' and inserting ``quantum information 
        science''; and
            (E) in paragraph (7), as so redesignated, by striking ``for 
        meeting the long-term challenges and achieving the specific 
        technical goals'' and inserting ``for carrying out the program 
        under subsection (a)'';
        (3) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e);
        (4) by inserting afer subsection (c) the following new 
    subsection (d):
    ``(d) Quantum Information Science Research Centers.--The Secretary 
of each military department may establish or designate a defense 
laboratory or establish activities to engage with appropriate public 
and private sector organizations, including academic organizations, to 
enhance and accelerate the research, development, and deployment of 
quantum information sciences and quantum information science-enabled 
technologies and systems. The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that 
not less than one such laboratory or center is established or 
designated.''; and
        (5) in paragraph (2) of subsection (e), as so redesignated--
            (A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``information'' 
        before ``sciences'';
            (B) in subparagraph (B),
                (i) by inserting ``information'' before ``sciences''; 
            and
                (ii) by inserting ``, including a discussion of likely 
            impacts of quantum information science and technology on 
            military capabilities'' before the period at the end;
            (C) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``information'' 
        before ``sciences'';
            (D) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as subparagraph (F); 
        and
            (E) by striking subparagraph (D) and inserting the 
        following new subparagraphs:
            ``(D) A description of the activities carried out in 
        accordance with this section, including, for each such 
        activity--
                ``(i) a roadmap for the activity;
                ``(ii) a summary of the funding provided for the 
            activity; and
                ``(iii) an estimated timeline for the development and 
            military deployment of quantum technologies supported 
            through the activity.
            ``(E) A description of the efforts of the Department of 
        Defense to update classification and cybersecurity practices 
        relating to quantum technology, including--
                ``(i) security processes and requirements for 
            engagement with allied countries; and
                ``(ii) a plan for security-cleared government and 
            contractor workforce development.''.
    SEC. 221. UNDERSTANDING OF INVESTMENTS IN ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE 
      AND DEVELOPMENT OF CAPABILITIES BY ADVERSARIES.
    Section 238(c)(2)(I) of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is 
amended--
        (1) in clause (i), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
    semicolon;
        (2) in clause (ii), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting ``; and''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new clause:
                ``(iii) that appropriate entities in the Department are 
            reviewing all open source publications from both the United 
            States and outside the United States that contribute to, 
            affect, or advance--

                    ``(I) artificial intelligence research and 
                development; or
                    ``(II) the understanding of the Secretary 
                concerning the investments by adversaries of the United 
                States in artificial intelligence and the development 
                by such adversaries of capabilities relating to 
                artificial intelligence.''.

    SEC. 222. ADVISORY ROLE OF JASON SCIENTIFIC ADVISORY GROUP.
    (a) Ongoing Engagement of Certain Scientific Advisory Personnel.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall seek to engage 
    the members of the independent, private scientific advisory group 
    known as ``JASON'' as advisory personnel to provide advice, on an 
    ongoing basis, on matters involving science, technology, and 
    national security, including methods to defeat existential and 
    technologically-amplified threats to national security.
        (2) Availability to other federal agencies.--At the request of 
    a Federal agency outside the Department of Defense, the Secretary 
    of Defense shall seek to make personnel engaged under paragraph (1) 
    available to such agency for the purpose of providing advice to the 
    agency on the matters described in such subsection.
    (b) Arrangement for Conduct of National Security Studies and 
Analysis.--
        (1) In general.--Pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary of 
    Defense, acting through the Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition and Sustainment, shall seek to enter into an 
    arrangement under which JASON may provide national security 
    research studies and other analyses to the Department of Defense 
    and other Federal agencies to meet mission requirements and agency 
    needs.
        (2) Form of arrangement.--The arrangement entered into under 
    paragraph (1) shall be in a form the Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition and Sustainment determines to be appropriate for the 
    Department of Defense, which may include a contract, a grant, a 
    cooperative agreement, the use of other transaction authority under 
    section 2371 of title 10, United States Code, or another such 
    arrangement.
        (3) Timing of arrangement.--The Secretary of Defense shall seek 
    to enter into the arrangement under paragraph (1) not later than 
    120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
        (4) Terms of arrangement.--The arrangement entered into under 
    paragraph (1) shall--
            (A) if specifically negotiated as part of the arrangement, 
        provide for the Department of Defense to reimburse the entity 
        supporting JASON for all or a portion of the overhead costs 
        incurred in support of the arrangement;
            (B) allow Federal Government entities outside the 
        Department of Defense with responsibilities relating to 
        national security to seek to engage JASON to perform individual 
        studies relating to national security matters as part of the 
        arrangement; and
            (C) require that a Federal agency that engages JASON to 
        perform a study under the arrangement will fully fund such 
        study, including a proportional percentage to the total 
        overhead costs incurred under the arrangement.
        (5) Limitation on termination.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may not terminate 
        the arrangement under paragraph (1) until a period of 180 days 
        has elapsed following the date on which the Secretary--
                (i) notifies the congressional defense committees of 
            the intent of the Secretary to terminate the arrangement; 
            and
                (ii) submits the report required under subparagraph 
            (B).
            (B) Report required.--
                (i) In general.--If the Secretary of Defense determines 
            that the arrangement under paragraph (1) should be 
            terminated, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
            defense committees a report on the proposed termination of 
            the arrangement.
                (ii) Elements.--The report required under clause (i) 
            shall include the following:

                    (I) A summary of the execution of research projects 
                conducted by JASON over the four fiscal years preceding 
                the date of the report, including the projects 
                requested by the Department of Defense and the projects 
                requested by other Federal agencies.
                    (II) An analysis of the costs to the Department of 
                Defense of maintaining the arrangement under which 
                JASON provided national security research studies, 
                including any overhead costs incurred by the Department 
                or shared among Federal agencies over the four fiscal 
                years preceding the date of the report.
                    (III) A timeline for the potential transition or 
                termination of the activities, functions, and expertise 
                provided by JASON under the arrangement.
                    (IV) An assessment of the impact that the 
                termination of the arrangement with JASON will have on 
                defense research studies and analytical capabilities, 
                including a mitigation plan that identifies where 
                alternative and comparable scientific advice and 
                expertise is available and a comparison of the costs 
                associated with each alternative.

                (iii) Form of report.--The report required under clause 
            (i) may be submitted in unclassified or classified form.
        (6) Annual summary report.--Not later than March 1 of each year 
    beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
    Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
    committees a report that includes--
            (A) a summary of expenditures made under the arrangement 
        with JASON under paragraph (1); and
            (B) a summary of the studies and other activities carried 
        out by JASON pursuant to such arrangement in the preceding 
        calendar year.
    SEC. 223. DIRECT AIR CAPTURE AND BLUE CARBON REMOVAL TECHNOLOGY 
      PROGRAM.
    (a) Program Required.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
    the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of Energy, and 
    the heads of such other Federal agencies as the Secretary of 
    Defense considers appropriate, shall carry out a program on 
    research, development, testing, evaluation, study, and 
    demonstration of technologies related to blue carbon capture and 
    direct air capture.
        (2) Program goals.--The goals of the program established under 
    paragraph (1) are as follows:
            (A) To develop technologies that capture carbon dioxide 
        from seawater and the air to turn such carbon dioxide into 
        clean fuels to enhance fuel and energy security.
            (B) To develop and demonstrate technologies that capture 
        carbon dioxide from seawater and the air to reuse such carbon 
        dioxide to create products for military uses.
            (C) To develop direct air capture technologies for use--
                (i) at military installations or facilities of the 
            Department of Defense; or
                (ii) in modes of transportation by the Navy or the 
            Coast Guard.
        (3) Phases.--The program established under paragraph (1) shall 
    be carried out in two phases as follows:
            (A) The first phase shall consist of research and 
        development and shall be carried out as described in subsection 
        (b).
            (B) The second phase shall consist of testing and 
        evaluation and shall be carried out as described in subsection 
        (c), if the Secretary determines that the results of the 
        research and development phase justify implementing the testing 
        and evaluation phase.
        (4) Designation.--The program established under paragraph (1) 
    shall be known as the ``Direct Air Capture and Blue Carbon Removal 
    Technology Program'' (in this section referred to as the 
    ``Program'').
    (b) Research and Development Phase.--
        (1) In general.--During the research and development phase of 
    the Program, the Secretary of Defense shall conduct research and 
    development in pursuit of the goals set forth in subsection (a)(2).
        (2) Direct air capture.--The research and development phase of 
    the Program may include, with respect to direct air capture, a 
    front end engineering and design study that includes an evaluation 
    of direct air capture designs to produce fuel for use--
            (A) at military installations or facilities of the 
        Department of Defense; or
            (B) in modes of transportation by the Navy or the Coast 
        Guard.
        (3) Commencement.--The Secretary shall commence carrying out 
    the research and development phase of the Program not later than 90 
    days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
        (4) Grants authorized.--The Secretary may carry out the 
    research and development phase of the Program through the award of 
    grants to private persons and eligible laboratories.
        (5) Report required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
    the completion of the research and development phase of the 
    Program, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the 
    research and development carried out under the Program.
    (c) Testing and Evaluation Phase.--
        (1) In general.--During the testing and evaluation phase of the 
    Program, the Secretary shall, in pursuit of the goals set forth in 
    subsection (a)(2), conduct tests and evaluations of the 
    technologies researched and developed during the research and 
    development phase of the Program.
        (2) Direct air capture.--The testing and evaluation phase of 
    the Program may include demonstration projects for direct air 
    capture to produce fuels for use--
            (A) at military installations or facilities of the 
        Department of Defense; or
            (B) in modes of transportation by the Navy or the Coast 
        Guard.
        (3) Commencement.--Subject to subsection (a)(3)(B), the 
    Secretary shall commence carrying out the testing and evaluation 
    phase of the Program on the date of the completion of the research 
    and development phase described in subsection (b), except that the 
    testing and evaluation phase of the Program with respect to direct 
    air capture may commence at such time after a front end engineering 
    and design study demonstrates to the Secretary that commencement of 
    such phase is appropriate.
        (4) Grants authorized.--The Secretary may carry out the testing 
    and evaluation phase of the Program through the award of grants to 
    private persons and eligible laboratories.
        (5) Locations.--The Secretary shall carry out the testing and 
    evaluation phase of the Program at military installations or 
    facilities of the Department of Defense.
        (6) Report required.--Not later than September 30, 2026, the 
    Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the findings of the 
    Secretary with respect to the effectiveness of the technologies 
    tested and evaluated under the Program.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``blue carbon capture'' means the removal of 
    dissolved carbon dioxide from seawater through engineered or 
    inorganic processes, including filters, membranes, or phase change 
    systems.
        (2)(A) The term ``direct air capture'', with respect to a 
    facility, technology, or system, means that the facility, 
    technology, or system uses carbon capture equipment to capture 
    carbon dioxide directly from the air.
        (B) The term ``direct air capture'' does not include any 
    facility, technology, or system that captures carbon dioxide--
            (i) that is deliberately released from a naturally 
        occurring subsurface spring; or
            (ii) using natural photosynthesis.
        (3) The term ``eligible laboratory'' means--
            (A) a National Laboratory (as defined in section 2 of the 
        Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801));
            (B) a science and technology reinvention laboratory 
        designated under section 1105 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 10 
        U.S.C. 2358 note);
            (C) the Major Range and Test Facility Base (as defined in 
        section 2358a(f) of title 10, United States Code); or
            (D) any other facility that supports the research, 
        development, test, and evaluation activities of the Department 
        of Defense or the Department of Energy.
    SEC. 224. REQUIRING DEFENSE MICROELECTRONICS PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 
      MEET TRUSTED SUPPLY CHAIN AND OPERATIONAL SECURITY STANDARDS.
    (a) Purchases.--To protect the United States from intellectual 
property theft and to ensure national security and public safety in the 
application of new generations of wireless network technology and 
microelectronics, beginning no later than January 1, 2023, the 
Secretary of Defense shall ensure that each microelectronics product or 
service that the Department of Defense purchases on or after such date 
meets the applicable trusted supply chain and operational security 
standards established pursuant to subsection (b), except in a case in 
which the Department seeks to purchase a microelectronics product or 
service but--
        (1) no such product or service is available for purchase that 
    meets such standards; or
        (2) no such product or service is available for purchase that--
            (A) meets such standards; and
            (B) is available at a price that the Secretary does not 
        consider prohibitively expensive.
    (b) Trusted Supply Chain and Operational Security Standards.--
        (1) Standards required.--(A) Not later than January 1, 2021, 
    the Secretary shall establish trusted supply chain and operational 
    security standards for the purchase of microelectronics products 
    and services by the Department.
        (B) For purposes of this section, a trusted supply chain and 
    operational security standard--
            (i) is a standard that systematizes best practices relevant 
        to--
                (I) manufacturing location;
                (II) company ownership;
                (III) workforce composition;
                (IV) access during manufacturing, suppliers' design, 
            sourcing, manufacturing, packaging, and distribution 
            processes;
                (V) reliability of the supply chain; and
                (VI) other matters germane to supply chain and 
            operational security; and
            (ii) is not a military standard (also known as ``MIL-STD'') 
        or a military specification (also known as ``MIL-SPEC'') for 
        microelectronics that--
                (I) specifies individual features for Department of 
            Defense microelectronics; or
                (II) otherwise inhibits the acquisition by the 
            Department of securely manufactured, commercially-available 
            products.
        (2) Consultation required.--In developing standards under 
    paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult with the following:
            (A) The Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of 
        State, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Director of the 
        National Institute of Standards and Technology.
            (B) Suppliers of microelectronics products and services 
        from the United States and allies and partners of the United 
        States.
            (C) Representatives of major United States industry sectors 
        that rely on a trusted supply chain and the operational 
        security of microelectronics products and services.
            (D) Representatives of the United States insurance 
        industry.
        (3) Tiers of trust and levels of security authorized.--In 
    carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary may establish tiers and 
    levels of trust and security within the supply chain and 
    operational security standards for microelectronics products and 
    services.
        (4) General applicability.--The standards established pursuant 
    to paragraph (1) shall be, to the greatest extent practicable, 
    generally applicable to the trusted supply chain and operational 
    security needs and use cases of the United States Government and 
    commercial industry, such that the standards could be widely 
    adopted by government agencies, commercial industry, and allies and 
    partners of the United States as the basis for procuring 
    microelectronics products and services.
        (5) Annual review.--Not later than October 1 of each year, the 
    Secretary shall, in consultation with persons and entities set 
    forth under paragraph (2), review the standards established 
    pursuant to paragraph (1) and issue updates or modifications as the 
    Secretary considers necessary or appropriate.
    (c) Ensuring Ability to Sell Commercially.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary shall, to the greatest extent 
    practicable, ensure that suppliers of microelectronics products and 
    services for the Department of Defense subject to subsection (a) 
    are able and incentivized to sell products commercially and to 
    governments of allies and partners of the United States that are 
    produced on the same production lines as the microelectronics 
    products supplied to the Department of Defense.
        (2) Effect of requirements and acquisitions.--The Secretary 
    shall, to the greatest extent practicable, ensure that the 
    requirements of the Department and the acquisition by the 
    Department of microelectronics enable the success of a dual-use 
    microelectronics industry.
    (d) Maintaining Competition and Innovation.--The Secretary shall 
take such actions as the Secretary considers necessary and appropriate, 
within the Secretary's authorized activities to maintain the health of 
the defense industrial base, to ensure that--
        (1) providers of microelectronics products and services that 
    meet the standards established under subsection (b) are exposed to 
    competitive market pressures to achieve competitive pricing and 
    sustained innovation; and
        (2) the industrial base of microelectronics products and 
    services that meet the standards established under subsection (b) 
    includes providers manufacturing in the United States or in 
    countries that are allies or partners of the United States.
    SEC. 225. DEVELOPMENT AND ACQUISITION STRATEGY TO PROCURE SECURE, 
      LOW PROBABILITY OF DETECTION DATA LINK NETWORK CAPABILITY.
    (a) Strategy Required.--Not later than March 1, 2020, the Chief of 
Staff of the Air Force, the Chief of Naval Operations, and the Chief of 
Staff of the Army shall jointly submit to the congressional defense 
committees a joint development and acquisition strategy to procure a 
secure, low probability of detection data link network capability, with 
the ability to effectively operate in hostile jamming environments 
while preserving the low observability characteristics of the relevant 
platforms, including both existing and planned platforms.
    (b) Network Characteristics.--The data link network capability to 
be procured pursuant to the development and acquisition strategy 
submitted under subsection (a) shall--
        (1) ensure that any network made with such capability will be 
    low risk and affordable, with minimal impact or change to existing 
    host platforms and minimal overall integration costs;
        (2) use a non-proprietary and open systems approach compatible 
    with the Rapid Capabilities Office Open Mission Systems initiative 
    of the Air Force, the Future Airborne Capability Environment 
    initiative of the Navy, and the Modular Open Systems Architecture 
    initiative of the Army; and
        (3) provide for an architecture to connect, with operationally 
    relevant throughput and latency--
            (A) fifth-generation combat aircraft;
            (B) fifth-generation and fourth-generation combat aircraft;
            (C) fifth-generation and fourth-generation combat aircraft 
        and appropriate support aircraft and other network nodes for 
        command, control, communications, intelligence, surveillance, 
        and reconnaissance purposes; and
            (D) fifth-generation and fourth-generation combat aircraft 
        and their associated network-enabled precision weapons.
    (c) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act for fiscal year 2020 for operation and maintenance for the Office 
of the Secretary of the Air Force, for operation and maintenance for 
the Office of the Secretary of the Navy, and for operations and 
maintenance for the Office of the Secretary of the Army, not more than 
50 percent may be obligated or expended until the date that is 15 days 
after the date on which the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, the Chief 
of Naval Operations, and the Chief of Staff of the Army, respectively, 
submit the development and acquisition strategy required by subsection 
(a).
    SEC. 226. ESTABLISHMENT OF SECURE NEXT-GENERATION WIRELESS NETWORK 
      (5G) INFRASTRUCTURE FOR THE NEVADA TEST AND TRAINING RANGE AND 
      BASE INFRASTRUCTURE.
    (a) Establishment Required.--Not later than one year after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish 
secure fifth-generation wireless network components and capabilities at 
no fewer than two Department of Defense installations in accordance 
with this section.
    (b) Installations.--
        (1) Locations.--The Secretary shall establish components and 
    capabilities under subsection (a) at the following:
            (A) The Nevada Test and Training Range, which shall serve 
        as a Major Range and Test Facility Base (MRTFB) for fifth-
        generation wireless networking.
            (B) Such Department installations or other installations as 
        the Secretary considers appropriate for the purpose set forth 
        in paragraph (2).
        (2) Purpose.--The purpose of the establishment of components 
    and capabilities under subsection (a) at the locations described in 
    paragraph (1) of this subsection is to demonstrate the following:
            (A) The potential military utility of high bandwidth, 
        scalable, and low latency fifth-generation wireless networking 
        technology.
            (B) Advanced security technology that is applicable to 
        fifth-generation networks as well as legacy Department command 
        and control networks.
            (C) Secure interoperability with fixed and wireless systems 
        (legacy and future systems).
            (D) Enhancements such as spectrum and waveform diversity, 
        frequency hopping and spreading, and beam forming for military 
        requirements.
            (E) Technology for dynamic network slicing for specific use 
        cases and applications requiring varying levels of latency, 
        scale, and throughput.
            (F) Technology for dynamic spectrum sharing and network 
        isolation.
            (G) Base infrastructure installation of high bandwidth, 
        scalable, and low latency fifth-generation wireless networking 
        technology.
            (H) Applications for secure fifth-generation wireless 
        network capabilities for the Department, such as the following:
                (i) Interactive augmented reality or synthetic training 
            environments.
                (ii) Internet of things devices.
                (iii) Autonomous systems.
                (iv) Advanced manufacturing through the following:

                    (I) Department-sponsored centers for manufacturing 
                innovation (as defined in section 34(c) of the National 
                Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 
                278s(c))).
                    (II) Department research and development 
                organizations.
                    (III) Manufacturers in the defense industrial base 
                of the United States.

    SEC. 227. ADMINISTRATION OF MANUFACTURING INNOVATION INSTITUTES 
      FUNDED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall make such changes 
to the administration of covered institutes so as--
        (1) to encourage covered institutes to leverage existing 
    workforce development programs across the Federal Government and 
    State governments in order to build successful workforce 
    development programs;
        (2) to develop metrics to evaluate the workforce development 
    performed by the covered institutes, including metrics on job 
    quality, career pathways, wages and benefits, and efforts to 
    support veterans, and progress in aligning workforce skillsets with 
    the current and long-term needs of the Department of Defense and 
    the defense industrial base;
        (3) to allow metrics to vary between covered institutes and be 
    updated and evaluated continuously in order to more accurately 
    evaluate covered institutes with different goals and missions;
        (4) to encourage covered institutes to consider developing 
    technologies that were previously funded by Federal Government 
    investment for early-stage research and development and expand 
    cross-government coordination and collaboration to achieve this 
    goal;
        (5) to provide an opportunity for increased Department of 
    Defense input and oversight from senior-level military and civilian 
    personnel on future technology roadmaps produced by covered 
    institutes;
        (6) to reduce the barriers to collaboration between and among 
    multiple covered institutes;
        (7) to use contracting vehicles that can increase flexibility, 
    reduce barriers for contracting with subject-matter experts and 
    small and medium enterprises, enhance partnerships between covered 
    institutes, and reduce the time to award contracts at covered 
    institutes; and
        (8) to overcome barriers to the adoption of manufacturing 
    processes and technologies developed by the covered institutes by 
    the defense and commercial industrial base, particularly small and 
    medium enterprises, by engaging with public and private sector 
    partnerships and appropriate government programs and activities, 
    including the Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership.
    (b) Coordination With Other Activities.--The Secretary shall carry 
out this section in coordination with activities undertaken under--
        (1) the Manufacturing Technology Program established under 
    section 2521 of title 10, United States Code;
        (2) the Manufacturing Engineering Education Program established 
    under section 2196 of such title;
        (3) the Defense Manufacturing Community Support Program 
    established under section 846 of the John S. McCain National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-
    232);
        (4) manufacturing initiatives of the Secretary of Commerce, the 
    head of the National Office of the Manufacturing USA Network, the 
    Secretary of Energy, and such other government and private sector 
    organizations as the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate; 
    and
        (5) such other activities as the Secretary considers 
    appropriate.
    (c) Definition of Covered Institute.--In this section, the term 
``covered institute'' means a manufacturing innovation institute that 
is funded by the Department of Defense.
    SEC. 228. RESEARCH PROGRAM ON FOREIGN MALIGN INFLUENCE OPERATIONS.
    (a) Program Authorized.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through 
the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, may carry 
out a research program on foreign malign influence operations as part 
of the university research programs of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Program Objectives.--The objectives of a research program 
carried out under subsection (a) should include the following:
        (1) Enhance the understanding of foreign malign influence 
    operations, including activities conducted on social media 
    platforms.
        (2) Facilitate the analysis of publicly available or 
    voluntarily provided indicators of foreign malign influence 
    operations.
        (3) Promote collaborative research and information exchange 
    with relevant entities within the Department of Defense and with 
    other agencies or nongovernmental organizations relating to foreign 
    malign influence operations, as appropriate.
    (c) Notice to Congress.--Not later than 30 days before initiating a 
research program under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees notice of the intent of 
the Secretary to initiate such a program, which shall include--
        (1) a detailed description of the program and any related 
    research activities;
        (2) the estimated cost and duration of the program; and
        (3) any other matters the Secretary determines to be relevant.
    SEC. 229. DIVERSIFICATION OF THE RESEARCH AND ENGINEERING WORKFORCE 
      OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Assessment Required.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through the 
    Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering and in 
    consultation with the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and 
    Readiness, shall conduct an assessment of critical skillsets 
    required across, and the diversity of, the research and engineering 
    workforce of the Department of Defense, including the science and 
    technology reinvention laboratories, to support emerging and future 
    warfighter technologies.
        (2) Elements.--The assessment required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include analysis of the following:
            (A) The percentage of women and minorities employed in the 
        research and engineering workforce of the Department of Defense 
        as of the date of the assessment.
            (B) Of the individuals hired into the research and 
        engineering workforce of the Department in the five years 
        preceding the date of the assessment, the percentage of such 
        individuals who are women and minorities.
            (C) The effectiveness of existing hiring, recruitment, and 
        retention incentives for women and minorities in the research 
        and engineering workforce of the Department.
            (D) The effectiveness of the Department in recruiting women 
        and minorities into the laboratory workforce after such 
        individuals complete work on Department-funded research, 
        projects, grant projects, fellowships, and STEM programs.
            (E) The geographical diversity of the workforce across 
        various geographic regions.
    (b) Plan Required.--
        (1) In general.--Based on the results of the assessment 
    conducted under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense, acting 
    through the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering 
    and in consultation with the Secretaries of the military 
    departments, shall develop and implement a plan to diversify and 
    strengthen the research and engineering workforce of the Department 
    of Defense.
        (2) Elements.--The plan required by paragraph (1) shall--
            (A) align with science and technology strategy priorities 
        of the Department of Defense, including the emerging and future 
        warfighter technology requirements identified by the 
        Department;
            (B) except as provided in subsection (c)(2), set forth 
        steps for the implementation of each recommendation included in 
        the 2013 report of the RAND corporation titled ``First Steps 
        Toward Improving DoD STEM Workforce Diversity'';
            (C) harness the full range of the Department's STEM 
        programs and other Department sponsored programs to develop and 
        attract top talent;
            (D) use existing authorities to attract and retain 
        students, academics, and other talent;
            (E) establish and use contracts, agreements, or other 
        arrangements with institutions of higher education (as defined 
        in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        1001)), including historically black colleges and universities 
        and other minority-serving institutions (as described in 
        section 371(a) of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1067q(a)) to enable easy 
        and efficient access to research and researchers for Government 
        sponsored basic and applied research and studies at each 
        institution, including contracts, agreements, and other 
        authorized arrangements such as those authorized under--
                (i) section 217 of the National Defense Authorization 
            Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 10 U.S.C. 2358 
            note); and
                (ii) such other authorities as the Secretary determines 
            to be appropriate; and
            (F) include recommendations for changes in authorities, 
        regulations, policies, or any other relevant areas that would 
        support the achievement of the goals set forth in the plan.
        (3) Submittal to congress.--Not later than one year after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
    submit to the congressional defense committees a report that 
    includes--
            (A) the plan developed under paragraph (1); and
            (B) with respect to each recommendation described in 
        paragraph (2)(B) that the Secretary has implemented or expects 
        to implement--
                (i) a summary of actions that have been taken to 
            implement the recommendation; and
                (ii) a schedule, with specific milestones, for 
            completing the implementation of the recommendation.
    (c) Deadline for Implementation.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), not later 
    than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act the 
    Secretary of Defense shall carry out activities to implement the 
    plan developed under subsection (b).
        (2) Exception for implementation of certain recommendations.--
            (A) Delayed implementation.--The Secretary of Defense may 
        commence implementation of a recommendation described in 
        subsection (b)(2)(B) after the date specified in paragraph (1) 
        if the Secretary provides the congressional defense committees 
        with a specific justification for the delay in implementation 
        of such recommendation on or before such date.
            (B) Nonimplementation.--The Secretary of Defense may opt 
        not to implement a recommendation described in subsection 
        (b)(2)(B) if the Secretary provides to the congressional 
        defense committees, on or before the date specified in 
        paragraph (1)--
                (i) a specific justification for the decision not to 
            implement the recommendation; and
                (ii) a summary of the alternative actions the Secretary 
            plans to take to address the issues underlying the 
            recommendation.
    (d) STEM Defined.--In this section, the term ``STEM'' means 
science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.
    SEC. 230. POLICY ON THE TALENT MANAGEMENT OF DIGITAL EXPERTISE AND 
      SOFTWARE PROFESSIONALS.
    (a) Policy.--
        (1) In general.--It shall be a policy of the Department of 
    Defense to promote and maintain digital expertise and software 
    development as core competencies of civilian and military 
    workforces of the Department, and as a capability to support the 
    National Defense Strategy, which policy shall be achieved by--
            (A) the recruitment, development, and incentivization of 
        retention in and to the civilian and military workforce of the 
        Department of individuals with aptitude, experience, proficient 
        expertise, or a combination thereof in digital expertise and 
        software development;
            (B) at the discretion of the Secretaries of the military 
        departments, the development and maintenance of civilian and 
        military career tracks related to digital expertise, and 
        related digital competencies for members of the Armed Forces, 
        including the development and maintenance of training, 
        education, talent management, incentives, and promotion 
        policies in support of members at all levels of such career 
        tracks; and
            (C) the development and application of appropriate 
        readiness standards and metrics to measure and report on the 
        overall capability, capacity, utilization, and readiness of 
        digital engineering professionals to develop and deliver 
        operational capabilities and employ modern business practices.
        (2) Digital engineering defined.--For purposes of this section, 
    the term ``digital engineering'' means the discipline and set of 
    skills involved in the creation, processing, transmission, 
    integration, and storage of digital data, including data science, 
    machine learning, software engineering, software product 
    management, and artificial intelligence product management.
    (b) Implementation Plan.--Not later than May 1, 2020, the Secretary 
of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
Senate and the House of Representatives a plan that describes how the 
Department of Defense will execute the policy described in subsection 
(a).
    (c) Responsibility.--
        (1) Appointment of officer.--Not later than 270 days after the 
    date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense may appoint 
    a civilian official responsible for the development and 
    implementation of the policy and implementation plan set forth in 
    subsections (a) and (b), respectively. The official shall be known 
    as the ``Chief Digital Engineering Recruitment and Management 
    Officer of the Department of Defense''.
        (2) Expiration of appointment.--The appointment of the Officer 
    under paragraph (1) shall expire on September 30, 2024.
    SEC. 231. DIGITAL ENGINEERING CAPABILITY TO AUTOMATE TESTING AND 
      EVALUATION.
    (a) Digital Engineering Capability.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish a 
    digital engineering capability to be used--
            (A) for the development and deployment of digital 
        engineering models for use in the defense acquisition process; 
        and
            (B) to provide testing infrastructure and software to 
        support automated approaches for testing, evaluation, and 
        deployment throughout the defense acquisition process.
        (2) Requirements.--The capability developed under subsection 
    (a) shall meet the following requirements:
            (A) The capability will be accessible to, and useable by, 
        individuals throughout the Department of Defense who have 
        responsibilities relating to capability design, development, 
        testing, evaluation, and operation.
            (B) The capability will provide for the development, 
        validation, use, curation, and maintenance of technically 
        accurate digital systems, models of systems, subsystems, and 
        their components, at the appropriate level of fidelity to 
        ensure that test activities adequately simulate the environment 
        in which a system will be deployed.
            (C) The capability will include software to automate 
        testing throughout the program life cycle, including to satisfy 
        developmental test requirements and operational test 
        requirements. Such software may be developed in accordance with 
        the authorities provided under section 800, and shall support--
                (i) security testing that includes vulnerability 
            scanning and penetration testing performed by individuals, 
            including threat-based red team exploitations and 
            assessments with zero-trust assumptions; and
                (ii) high-confidence distribution of software to the 
            field on a time-bound, repeatable, frequent, and iterative 
            basis.
    (b) Demonstration Activities.--
        (1) In general.--In developing the capability required under 
    subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall carry out activities 
    to demonstrate digital engineering approaches to automated testing 
    that--
            (A) enable continuous software development and delivery;
            (B) satisfy developmental test requirements for the 
        software-intensive programs of the Department of Defense; and
            (C) satisfy operational test and evaluation requirements 
        for such programs.
        (2) Program selection.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
    of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall assess 
    and select not fewer than four and not more than ten programs of 
    the Department of Defense to participate in the demonstration 
    activities under paragraph (1), including--
            (A) at least one program participating in the pilot program 
        authorized under section 873 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 10 
        U.S.C. 2223a note);
            (B) at least one program participating in the pilot program 
        authorized under section 874 of such Act (Public Law 115-91; 10 
        U.S.C. 2302 note);
            (C) at least one major defense acquisition program (as 
        defined in section 2430 of title 10, United States Code);
            (D) at least one command and control program;
            (E) at least one defense business system (as defined in 
        section 2222(i) of title 10, United States Code); and
            (F) at least one program from each military service.
        (3) Additional requirements.--As part of the demonstration 
    activities under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall--
            (A) conduct a comparative analysis that assesses the risks 
        and benefits of the digital engineering supported automated 
        testing approaches of the programs participating in the 
        demonstration activities relative to traditional testing 
        approaches that are not supported by digital engineering;
            (B) ensure that the intellectual property strategy for each 
        of the programs participating in the demonstration activities 
        is best aligned to meet the goals of the program; and
            (C) develop a workforce and infrastructure plan to support 
        any new policies and guidance implemented in connection with 
        the demonstration activities, including any policies and 
        guidance implemented after the completion of such activities.
    (c) Policies and Guidance Required.--Not later than one year after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, based on the results of the 
demonstration activities carried out under subsection (b), the 
Secretary of Defense shall issue or modify policies and guidance to--
        (1) promote the use of digital engineering capabilities for 
    development and for automated testing; and
        (2) address roles, responsibilities, and procedures relating to 
    such capabilities.
    (d) Steering Committee.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish a 
    steering committee to assist the Secretary in carrying out 
    subsections (a) through (c).
        (2) Membership.--The steering committee shall be composed of 
    the following members or their designees:
            (A) The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Engineering.
            (B) The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment.
            (C) The Chief Information Officer.
            (D) The Director of Operational Test and Evaluation.
            (E) The Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation.
            (F) The Service Acquisition Executives.
            (G) The Service testing commands.
            (H) The Director of the Defense Digital Service.
    (e) Reports Required.--
        (1) Implementation.--Not later than March 15, 2020, the 
    Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
    committees a report on the progress of the Secretary in 
    implementing subsections (a) through (c). The report shall include 
    an explanation of how the results of the demonstration activities 
    carried out under subsection (b) will be incorporated into the 
    policy and guidance required under subsection (c), particularly the 
    policy and guidance of the members of the steering committee 
    established under subsection (d).
        (2) Legislative recommendations.--Not later than October 15, 
    2020, the Secretary of Defense shall provide to the congressional 
    defense committees a briefing that identifies any changes to 
    existing law that may be necessary to facilitate the implementation 
    of subsections (a) through (c).
    (f) Independent Assessment.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than March 15, 2021, the Defense 
    Innovation Board and the Defense Science Board shall jointly 
    complete an independent assessment of the progress of the Secretary 
    in implementing subsections (a) through (c). The Secretary of 
    Defense shall ensure that the Defense Innovation Board and the 
    Defense Science Board have access to the resources, data, and 
    information necessary to complete the assessment.
        (2) Information to congress.--Not later than 30 days after the 
    date on which the assessment under paragraph (1) is completed, the 
    Defense Innovation Board and the Defense Science Board shall 
    jointly provide to the congressional defense committees--
            (A) a report summarizing the assessment; and
            (B) a briefing on the findings of the assessment.
    SEC. 232. PROCESS TO ALIGN POLICY FORMULATION AND EMERGING 
      TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT.
    (a) Alignment of Policy and Technological Development.--Not later 
than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Defense shall establish a process to ensure that the 
policies of the Department of Defense relating to emerging technology 
are formulated and updated continuously as such technology is developed 
by the Department.
    (b) Elements.--As part of the process established under subsection 
(a), the Secretary shall--
        (1) specify the role of each covered official in ensuring that 
    the formulation of policies relating to emerging technology is 
    carried out concurrently with the development of such technology; 
    and
        (2) incorporate procedures for the continuous legal review of--
            (A) weapons and other defense systems that incorporate or 
        use emerging technology; and
            (B) treaties that may be affected by such technology.
    (c) Briefing Required.--Not later than 30 days after the date on 
which the Secretary of Defense establishes the process required under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall provide to the congressional 
defense committees a briefing on such process.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``covered official'' means the following:
            (A) The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
            (B) The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Engineering.
            (C) The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment.
            (D) The Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.
            (E) The commanders of combatant commands with 
        responsibilities involving the use of weapons or other defense 
        systems that incorporate or use emerging technology, as 
        determined by the Secretary of Defense.
            (F) The Secretaries of the military departments.
        (2) The term ``emerging technology'' means technology 
    determined to be in an emerging phase of development by the 
    Secretary of Defense, including quantum computing, technology for 
    the analysis of large and diverse sets of data (commonly known as 
    ``big data analytics''), artificial intelligence, autonomous 
    technology, robotics, directed energy, hypersonics, biotechnology, 
    and such other technology as may be identified by the Secretary.
    SEC. 233. IMPROVEMENT OF THE STRATEGIC CAPABILITIES OFFICE OF THE 
      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Organization.--
        (1) Authority of deputy secretary of defense.--The Deputy 
    Secretary of Defense shall exercise authority and direction over 
    the Strategic Capabilities Office of the Department of Defense 
    (referred to in this section as the ``Office'').
        (2) Authority of director.--The Director of the Office shall 
    report directly to the Deputy Secretary of Defense.
        (3) Delegation.--In exercising authority and direction over the 
    Office under subsection (a), the Deputy Secretary of Defense may 
    delegate administrative, management, and other duties to the 
    Director of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, as 
    needed, to effectively and efficiently execute the mission of the 
    Office.
    (b) Cross-functional Teams.--
        (1) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
    enactment of this Act, the Deputy Secretary of Defense shall 
    establish the following cross-functional teams to improve the 
    effectiveness of the Office:
            (A) A transition cross-functional team to improve the 
        efficiency and effectiveness with which the programs of the 
        Office may be transitioned into--
                (i) research and development programs of the military 
            services and other agencies of the Department of Defense; 
            and
                (ii) programs of such services and agencies in 
            operational use.
            (B) A technical cross functional team to improve the 
        continuous technical assessment and review of the programs of 
        the Office during program selection and execution.
        (2) Membership.--The Deputy Secretary of Defense shall select 
    individuals to serve on the cross-functional teams described in 
    paragraph (1) from among individuals in the defense research and 
    engineering enterprise, acquisition community, Joint Staff, 
    combatant commands, and other organizations, as determined to be 
    appropriate by the Deputy Secretary.
    SEC. 234. PILOT PROGRAM ON ENHANCED CIVICS EDUCATION.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Education, shall carry out a pilot program under which the 
Secretary provides enhanced educational support and funding to eligible 
entities to improve civics education programs taught by such entities.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the pilot program is to provide 
enhanced civics education on the following topics:
        (1) Critical thinking and media literacy.
        (2) Voting and other forms of political and civic engagement.
        (3) Interest in employment, and careers, in public service.
        (4) Understanding of United States law, history, and 
    Government.
        (5) The ability of participants to collaborate and compromise 
    with others to solve problems.
    (c) Considerations.--In carrying out the pilot program, the 
Secretary of Defense shall consider innovative approaches for improving 
civics education.
    (d) Metrics and Evaluations.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
establish metrics and undertake evaluations to determine the 
effectiveness of the pilot program, including each of the activities 
carried out under subsection (e).
    (e) Types of Support Authorized.--Under the pilot program the 
Secretary of Defense--
        (1) shall provide support to eligible entities to address, at a 
    minimum--
            (A) the development or modification of curricula relating 
        to civics education;
            (B) classroom activities, thesis projects, individual or 
        team projects, internships, or community service activities 
        relating to civics;
            (C) collaboration with government entities, nonprofit 
        organizations, or consortia of such entities and organizations 
        to provide participants with civics-related experiences;
            (D) civics-related faculty development programs;
            (E) recruitment of educators who are highly qualified in 
        civics education to teach civics or to assist with the 
        development of curricula for civics education;
            (F) presentation of seminars, workshops, and training for 
        the development of skills associated with civic engagement;
            (G) activities that enable participants to interact with 
        government officials and entities;
            (H) expansion of civics education programs and outreach for 
        members of the Armed Forces, dependents and children of such 
        members, and employees of the Department of Defense; and
            (I) opportunities for participants to obtain work 
        experience in fields relating to civics; and
        (2) may provide any other form of support the Secretary 
    determines to be appropriate to enhance the civics education taught 
    by eligible entities.
    (f) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the conclusion of the 
first full academic year during which the pilot program is carried out, 
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report that includes--
        (1) a description of the pilot program, including the a 
    description of the specific activities carried out under subsection 
    (e); and
        (2) the metrics and evaluations used to assess the 
    effectiveness of the program as required under subsection (d).
    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``civics education program'' means an educational 
    program that provides participants with--
            (A) knowledge of law, government, and the rights of 
        citizens; and
            (B) skills that enable participants to responsibly 
        participate in democracy.
        (2) The term ``eligible entity'' means any of following:
            (A) A local education agency that hosts a unit of the 
        Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps.
            (B) A school operated by the Department of Defense 
        Education Activity.
    SEC. 235. TECHNOLOGY AND NATIONAL SECURITY FELLOWSHIP.
    (a) Fellowship Program.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through the 
    Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, may 
    establish a civilian fellowship program designed to place eligible 
    individuals within the Department of Defense and Congress to 
    increase the number of national security professionals with 
    science, technology, engineering, and mathematics credentials 
    employed by the Department.
        (2) Designation.--The fellowship program established under 
    paragraph (1) shall be known as the ``Technology and National 
    Security Fellowship'' (in this section referred to as the ``fellows 
    program'').
        (3) Assignments.--Each individual selected for participation in 
    the fellows program shall be assigned to a one year position 
    within--
            (A) the Department of Defense; or
            (B) a congressional office with emphasis on defense and 
        national security matters.
        (4) Pay and benefits.--To the extent practicable, each 
    individual assigned to a position under paragraph (3)--
            (A) shall be compensated at a rate of basic pay that is 
        equivalent to the rate of basic pay payable for a position at 
        level 10 of the General Schedule; and
            (B) shall be treated as an employee of the United States 
        during the assignment.
    (b) Eligible Individuals.--
        (1) Eligibility for dod assignment.--Subject to subsection (e), 
    an individual eligible for an assignment in the Department of 
    Defense under subsection (a)(3)(A) is an individual who--
            (A) is a citizen of the United States; and
            (B) either--
                (i) expects to be awarded a bachelor's degree, 
            associate's degree, or graduate degree that, as determined 
            by the Secretary, focuses on science, technology, 
            engineering, or mathematics course work not later than 180 
            days after the date on which the individual submits an 
            application for participation in the fellows program;
                (ii) possesses a bachelor's degree, associate's degree, 
            or graduate degree that, as determined by the Secretary, 
            focuses on science, technology, engineering, or mathematics 
            course work; or
                (iii) is an employee of the Department of Defense and 
            possesses a bachelor's degree, associate's degree, or 
            graduate degree that, as determined by the Secretary, 
            focuses on science, technology, engineering, or mathematics 
            course work.
        (2) Eligibility for congressional assignment.--Subject to 
    subsection (e), an individual eligible for an assignment in a 
    congressional office under subsection (a)(3)(B) is an individual 
    who--
            (A) meets the requirements specified in paragraph (1); and
            (B) has not less than 3 years of relevant work experience 
        in the field of science, technology, engineering, or 
        mathematics.
    (c) Application.--Each individual seeking to participate in the 
fellows program shall submit to the Secretary an application therefor 
at such time and in such manner as the Secretary shall specify.
    (d) Coordination.--In carrying out this section, the Secretary may 
consider working through the following entities:
        (1) The National Security Innovation Network.
        (2) Universities.
        (3) Science and technology reinvention laboratories and test 
    and evaluation centers of the Department of Defense.
        (4) Other organizations of the Department of Defense or public 
    and private sector organizations, as determined appropriate by the 
    Secretary.
    (e) Modifications to Fellows Program.--The Secretary may modify the 
terms and procedures of the fellows program in order to better achieve 
the goals of the program and to support workforce needs of the 
Department of Defense.
    (f) Consultation.--The Secretary may consult with the heads of the 
agencies, components, and other elements of the Department of Defense, 
Members and committees of Congress, and such institutions of higher 
education and private entities engaged in work on national security and 
emerging technologies as the Secretary considers appropriate for 
purposes of the fellows program, including with respect to assignments 
in the fellows program.
    SEC. 236. DOCUMENTATION RELATING TO THE ADVANCED BATTLE MANAGEMENT 
      SYSTEM.
    (a) Documentation Required.--Not later than the date specified in 
subsection (b), the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees the following documentation relating 
to the Advanced Battle Management System:
        (1) A list that identifies each program, project, and activity 
    that contributes to the architecture of the Advanced Battle 
    Management System.
        (2) The final analysis of alternatives for the Advanced Battle 
    Management System.
        (3) The requirements for the networked data architecture 
    necessary for the Advanced Battle Management System to provide 
    multidomain command and control and battle management capabilities 
    and a development schedule for such architecture.
    (b) Date Specified.--The date specified in this subsection is the 
earlier of--
        (1) the date that is 180 days after the date on which the final 
    analysis of alternatives for the Advanced Battle Management System 
    is completed; or
        (2) June 1, 2020.
    (c) Advanced Battle Management System Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``Advanced Battle Management System'' means the Advanced 
Battle Management System of Systems capability of the Air Force, 
including each program, project, and activity that contributes to such 
capability.
    SEC. 237. SENSOR DATA INTEGRATION FOR FIFTH GENERATION AIRCRAFT.
    (a) F-35 Sensor Data.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that--
        (1) information collected by the passive and active on-board 
    sensors of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter aircraft is capable of 
    being shared, in real time, with joint service users in cases in 
    which the Joint Force Commander determines that sharing such 
    information would be operationally advantageous; and
        (2) the Secretary has developed achievable, effective, and 
    suitable concepts and supporting technical architectures to 
    collect, store, manage, and disseminate information collected by 
    such sensors.
    (b) GAO Study and Report.--
        (1) Study.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
    conduct a study of the sensor data collection and dissemination 
    capability of fifth generation aircraft of the Department of 
    Defense.
        (2) Elements.--The study required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include an assessment of the following--
            (A) the extent to which the Department has established 
        doctrinal, organizational, or technological methods of managing 
        the large amount of sensor data that is currently collected and 
        which may be collected by existing and planned advanced fifth 
        generation aircraft;
            (B) the status of the existing sensor data collection, 
        storage, dissemination, and management capability and capacity 
        of fifth generation aircraft, including the F-35, the F-22, and 
        the B-21; and
            (C) the ability of the F-35 aircraft and other fifth 
        generation aircraft to share information collected by the 
        aircraft in real-time with other joint service users as 
        described in subsection (a)(1).
        (3) Study results.--
            (A) Interim briefing.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General 
        shall provide to the congressional defense committees a 
        briefing on the preliminary findings of the study conducted 
        under this subsection.
            (B) Final results.--The Comptroller General shall provide 
        the final results of the study conducted under this subsection 
        to the congressional defense committees at such time and in 
        such format as is mutually agreed upon by the committees and 
        the Comptroller General at the time of the briefing under 
        subparagraph (A).
    SEC. 238. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON FUTURE VERTICAL LIFT TECHNOLOGIES.
    It is the sense of Congress that the Army should continue to invest 
in research, development, test, and evaluation programs to mature 
future vertical lift technologies, including programs to improve pilot 
situational awareness, increase flight operations safety, and reduce 
operation and maintenance costs.
    SEC. 239. USE OF FUNDS FOR STRATEGIC ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH 
      PROGRAM, ENVIRONMENTAL SECURITY TECHNICAL CERTIFICATION PROGRAM, 
      AND OPERATIONAL ENERGY CAPABILITY IMPROVEMENT.
    Of the funds authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 for 
the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, test, 
and evaluation, as specified in the funding table in section 4201 for 
the Strategic Environmental Research Program, Operational Energy 
Capability Improvement, and the Environmental Security Technical 
Certification Program, the Secretary of Defense shall, acting through 
the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, expend 
amounts as follows:
        (1) Not less than $10,000,000 on the development and 
    demonstration of long duration on-site energy battery storage for 
    distributed energy assets.
        (2) Not less than $10,000,000 on the development, 
    demonstration, and validation of non-fluorine based firefighting 
    foams.
        (3) Not less than $10,000,000 on the development, 
    demonstration, and validation of secure microgrids for both 
    installations and forward operating bases.
        (4) Not less than $1,000,000 on the development, demonstration, 
    and validation of technologies that can harvest potable water from 
    air.
    SEC. 240. LIMITATION AND REPORT ON INDIRECT FIRE PROTECTION 
      CAPABILITY INCREMENT 2 CAPABILITY.
    (a) Limitation and Report on Indirect Fire Protection Capability 
Increment 2.--Not more than 50 percent of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 
2020 for the Army may be obligated or expended for research, 
development, test, and evaluation for the Indirect Fire Protection 
Capability Increment 2 capability until the Secretary of the Army 
submits to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
Indirect Fire Protection Capability Increment 2 program that contains 
the following:
        (1) An assessment of whether the requirements previously 
    established for the enduring program meet the anticipated threat at 
    the time of planned initial operating capability and fully 
    operating capability.
        (2) A list of candidate systems considered to meet the Indirect 
    Fire Protection Capability Increment 2 enduring requirement, 
    including those fielded or in development by the Army and other 
    elements of the Department of Defense.
        (3) An assessment of each candidate system's capability against 
    representative threats.
        (4) An assessment of other relevant specifications of each 
    candidate system, including cost of development, cost per round if 
    applicable, technological maturity, and logistics and sustainment.
        (5) A plan for how the Army will integrate the chosen system or 
    systems into the Integrated Air and Missile Defense Battle Command 
    System.
        (6) An assessment of the results of the performance, test, 
    evaluation, integration, and interoperability of batteries one and 
    two of the interim solution.
    (b) Notification Required.--Not later than 10 days after the date 
on which the President submits the annual budget request of the 
President for fiscal year 2021 pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, 
United States Code, the Secretary of the Defense shall, without 
delegation, submit to the congressional defense committees a 
notification identifying the military services or agencies that will be 
responsible for the conduct of air and missile defense in support of 
joint campaigns as it applies to defense against current and emerging 
missile threats. The notification shall identify the applicable 
programs of record to address such threats, including each class of 
cruise missile threat.

             Subtitle C--Plans, Reports, and Other Matters

    SEC. 251. MASTER PLAN FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO 
      SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY REINVENTION LABORATORIES.
    (a) Plan Required.--The Secretary of Defense, jointly with the 
Secretaries of the military departments and in consultation with the 
Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, shall develop 
a master plan for using existing authorities to strengthen and 
modernize the workforce and capabilities of the science and technology 
reinvention laboratories of the Department of Defense (referred to in 
this section as the ``laboratories'') to enhance the ability of the 
laboratories to execute missions in the most efficient and effective 
manner.
    (b) Elements.--The master plan required under subsection (a) shall 
include, with respect to the laboratories, the following:
        (1) A summary of hiring and staffing deficiencies at 
    laboratories, by location, and the effect of such deficiencies on 
    the ability of the laboratories--
            (A) to meet existing and future requirements of the 
        Department of Defense; and
            (B) to recruit and retain qualified personnel.
        (2) A summary of existing and emerging military research, 
    development, test, and evaluation mission areas requiring the use 
    of the laboratories.
        (3) An explanation of the laboratory staffing capabilities 
    required for each mission area identified under paragraph (2).
        (4) Identification of specific projects, including hiring 
    efforts and management reforms, that will be carried out--
            (A) to address the deficiencies identified in paragraph 
        (1); and
            (B) to support the existing and emerging mission areas 
        identified in paragraph (2).
        (5) For each project identified under paragraph (4)--
            (A) a summary of the plan for the project;
            (B) a description of the resources that will be applied to 
        the project; and
            (C) a schedule of required investments that will be made as 
        part of the project.
        (6) A description of how the Department, including each 
    military department concerned, will carry out the projects 
    identified in paragraph (4) using existing authorities.
        (7) Identification of any statutory, regulatory, or management-
    related barriers to implementing the master plan and a description 
    of policy and legislative options that may be applied to address 
    such barriers.
    (c) Consultation.--In developing the master plan required under 
subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense, the Secretaries of the 
military departments, and the Under Secretary of Defense for Research 
and Engineering shall consult with--
        (1) the Service Acquisition Executives with responsibilities 
    relevant to the laboratories;
        (2) the commander of each military command with 
    responsibilities relating to research and engineering that is 
    affected by the master plan; and
        (3) any other officials determined to be relevant by the 
    Secretary of Defense, the Secretaries of the military departments, 
    and the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.
    (d) Final Report.--Not later than October 30, 2020, the Secretary 
of Defense, jointly with the Secretaries of the military departments 
and in consultation with the Under Secretary of Defense for Research 
and Engineering, shall submit to the congressional defense committees--
        (1) the master plan developed under subsection (a);
        (2) a report on the activities carried out under this section; 
    and
        (3) a report that identifies any barriers that prevent the full 
    use and implementation of existing authorities, including any 
    barriers presented by the policies, authorities, and activities 
    of--
            (A) organizations and elements of the Department of 
        Defense; and
            (B) organizations outside the Department.
    SEC. 252. INFRASTRUCTURE TO SUPPORT RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, 
      AND EVALUATION MISSIONS.
    (a) Master Plan Required.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through 
the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering and in 
coordination with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall 
develop and implement a master plan that addresses the research, 
development, test, and evaluation infrastructure and modernization 
requirements of the Department of Defense, including the science and 
technology reinvention laboratories and the facilities of the Major 
Range and Test Facility Base.
    (b) Elements.--The master plan required under subsection (a) shall 
include, with respect to the research, development, test, and 
evaluation infrastructure of the Department of Defense, the following:
        (1) A summary of deficiencies in the infrastructure, by 
    location, and the effect of the deficiencies on the ability of the 
    Department--
            (A) to meet current and future military requirements 
        identified in the National Defense Strategy;
            (B) to support science and technology development and 
        acquisition programs; and
            (C) to recruit and train qualified personnel.
        (2) A summary of existing and emerging military research, 
    development, test, and evaluation mission areas, by location, that 
    require modernization investments in the infrastructure--
            (A) to improve operations in a manner that may benefit all 
        users;
            (B) to enhance the overall capabilities of the research, 
        development, test, and evaluation infrastructure, including 
        facilities and resources;
            (C) to improve safety for personnel and facilities; and
            (D) to reduce the long-term cost of operation and 
        maintenance.
        (3) Identification of specific infrastructure projects that are 
    required to address the infrastructure deficiencies identified 
    under paragraph (1) or to support the existing and emerging mission 
    areas identified under paragraph (2).
        (4) For each project identified under paragraph (3)--
            (A) a description of the scope of work;
            (B) a cost estimate;
            (C) a summary of the plan for the project;
            (D) an explanation of the level of priority that will be 
        given to the project; and
            (E) a schedule of required infrastructure investments.
        (5) A description of how the Department, including each 
    military department concerned, will carry out the infrastructure 
    projects identified in paragraph (3) using the range of authorities 
    and methods available to the Department, including--
            (A) military construction authority under section 2802 of 
        title 10, United States Code;
            (B) unspecified minor military construction authority under 
        section 2805(a) of such title;
            (C) laboratory revitalization authority under section 
        2805(d) of such title;
            (D) the authority to carry out facility repair projects, 
        including the conversion of existing facilities, under section 
        2811 of such title;
            (E) the authority provided under the Defense Laboratory 
        Modernization Pilot Program under section 2803 of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-
        92; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note);
            (F) methods that leverage funding from entities outside the 
        Department, including public-private partnerships, enhanced use 
        leases and real property exchanges;
            (G) the authority to conduct commercial test and evaluation 
        activities at a Major Range and Test Facility Installation, 
        under section 2681 of title 10, United States Code; and
            (H) any other authorities and methods determined to be 
        appropriate by the Secretary of Defense.
        (6) Identification of any regulatory or policy barriers to the 
    effective and efficient implementation of the master plan.
    (c) Consultation and Coordination.--In developing and implementing 
the plan required under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense 
shall--
        (1) consult with existing and anticipated customers and users 
    of the capabilities of the Major Range and Test Facility Base and 
    science and technology reinvention laboratories;
        (2) ensure consistency with the science and technology roadmaps 
    and strategies of the Department of Defense and the Armed Forces; 
    and
        (3) ensure consistency with the strategic plan for test and 
    evaluation resources required by section 196(d) of title 10, United 
    States Code.
    (d) Submittal to Congress.--Not later than January 1, 2021, the 
Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretaries of the 
military departments, shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees the master plan developed under subsection (a).
    (e) Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation Infrastructure 
Defined.--In this section, the term ``research, development, test, and 
evaluation infrastructure'' means the infrastructure of--
        (1) the science and technology reinvention laboratories (as 
    designated under section 1105 of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note));
        (2) the Major Range and Test Facility Base (as defined in 
    section 2358a(f)(3) of title 10, United States Code); and
        (3) other facilities that support the research development, 
    test, and evaluation activities of the Department.
    SEC. 253. ENERGETICS PLAN.
    (a) Plan Required.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
Engineering shall, in coordination with the technical directors at 
defense laboratories and such other officials as the Under Secretary 
considers appropriate, develop an energetics research and development 
plan to ensure a long-term multi-domain research, development, 
prototyping, and experimentation effort that--
        (1) maintains United States technological superiority in 
    energetics technology critical to national security;
        (2) efficiently develops new energetics technologies and 
    transitions them into operational use, as appropriate; and
        (3) maintains a robust industrial base and workforce to support 
    Department of Defense requirements for energetic materials.
    (b) Briefing.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary shall brief the 
congressional defense committees on the plan developed under subsection 
(a).
    SEC. 254. STRATEGY AND IMPLEMENTATION PLAN FOR FIFTH GENERATION 
      INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGIES.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall develop--
        (1) a strategy for harnessing fifth generation (commonly known 
    as ``5G'') information and communications technologies to enhance 
    military capabilities, maintain a technological advantage on the 
    battlefield, and accelerate the deployment of new commercial 
    products and services enabled by 5G networks throughout the 
    Department of Defense; and
        (2) a plan for implementing the strategy developed under 
    paragraph (1).
    (b) Elements.--The strategy required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following elements:
        (1) Adoption and use of secure fourth generation (commonly 
    known as ``4G'') communications technologies and the transition to 
    advanced and secure 5G communications technologies for military 
    applications and for military infrastructure.
        (2) Science, technology, research, and development efforts to 
    facilitate the advancement and adoption of 5G technology and new 
    uses of 5G systems, subsystems, and components, including--
            (A) 5G testbeds for developing military and dual-use 
        applications; and
            (B) spectrum-sharing technologies and frameworks.
        (3) Strengthening engagement and outreach with industry, 
    academia, international partners, and other departments and 
    agencies of the Federal Government on issues relating to 5G 
    technology and the deployment of such technology, including 
    development of a common industrial base for secure 
    microelectronics.
        (4) Defense industrial base supply chain risk, management, and 
    opportunities.
        (5) Preserving the ability of the Joint Force to achieve 
    objectives in a contested and congested spectrum environment.
        (6) Strengthening the ability of the Joint Force to conduct 
    full spectrum operations that enhance the military advantages of 
    the United States.
        (7) Securing the information technology and weapon systems of 
    the Department against malicious activity.
        (8) Advancing the deployment of secure 5G networks nationwide.
        (9) Such other matters as the Secretary of Defense determines 
    to be relevant.
    (c) Consultation.--In developing the strategy and implementation 
plan required under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall 
consult with the following:
        (1) The Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense.
        (2) The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
    Engineering.
        (3) The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
    Sustainment.
        (4) The Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence.
        (5) Service Acquisition Executives of each military service.
    (d) Periodic Briefings.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than March 15, 2020, and not less 
    frequently than once every three months thereafter through March 
    15, 2022, the Secretary of Defense shall provide to the 
    congressional defense committees a briefing on the development and 
    implementation of the strategy required under subsection (a), 
    including an explanation of how the Department of Defense--
            (A) is using secure 5G wireless network technology;
            (B) is reshaping the Department's policy for producing and 
        procuring secure microelectronics; and
            (C) is working in the interagency and internationally to 
        develop common policies and approaches.
        (2) Elements.--Each briefing under paragraph (1) shall include 
    information on--
            (A) efforts to ensure a secure supply chain for 5G wireless 
        network equipment and microelectronics;
            (B) the continued availability of electromagnetic spectrum 
        for warfighting needs;
            (C) planned implementation of 5G wireless network 
        infrastructure in warfighting networks, base infrastructure, 
        defense-related manufacturing, and logistics;
            (D) steps taken to work with allied and partner countries 
        to protect critical networks and supply chains; and
            (E) such other topics as the Secretary of Defense considers 
        relevant.
    SEC. 255. DEPARTMENT-WIDE SOFTWARE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY STRATEGY.
    (a) Designation of Senior Official.--Not later than 180 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, acting 
through the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering and 
in consultation with the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
Sustainment and appropriate public and private sector organizations, 
shall designate a single official or existing entity within the 
Department of Defense as the official or entity (as the case may be) 
with principal responsibility for guiding the development of science 
and technology activities related to next generation software and 
software reliant systems for the Department, including--
        (1) research and development activities on new technologies for 
    the creation of highly secure, scalable, reliable, time-sensitive, 
    and mission-critical software;
        (2) research and development activities on new approaches and 
    tools to software development and deployment, testing, integration, 
    and next generation software management tools to support the rapid 
    insertion of such software into defense systems;
        (3) foundational scientific research activities to support 
    advances in software;
        (4) technical workforce and infrastructure to support defense 
    science and technology and software needs and mission requirements;
        (5) providing capabilities, including technologies, systems, 
    and technical expertise to support improved acquisition of software 
    reliant business and warfighting systems; and
        (6) providing capabilities, including technologies, systems, 
    and technical expertise to support defense operational missions 
    which are reliant on software.
    (b) Development of Strategy.--The official or entity designated 
under subsection (a) shall develop a Department-wide strategy for the 
research and development of next generation software and software 
reliant systems for the Department of Defense, including strategies 
for--
        (1) types of software-related activities within the science and 
    technology portfolio of the Department;
        (2) investment in new approaches to software development and 
    deployment, and next generation management tools;
        (3) ongoing research and other support of academic, commercial, 
    and development community efforts to innovate the software 
    development, engineering, and testing process, automated testing, 
    assurance and certification for safety and mission critical 
    systems, large scale deployment, and sustainment;
        (4) to the extent practicable, implementing or continuing the 
    implementation of the recommendations set forth in--
            (A) the final report of the Defense Innovation Board 
        submitted to the congressional defense committees under section 
        872 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
        2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1497);
            (B) the final report of the Defense Science Board Task 
        Force on the Design and Acquisition of Software for Defense 
        Systems described in section 868 of the John S. McCain National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-
        232; 10 U.S.C. 2223 note); and
            (C) other relevant studies on software research, 
        development, and acquisition activities of the Department of 
        Defense.
        (5) supporting the acquisition, technology development, 
    testing, assurance, and certification and operational needs of the 
    Department through the development of capabilities, including 
    personnel and research and production infrastructure, and programs 
    in--
            (A) the science and technology reinvention laboratories (as 
        designated under section 1105 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 10 
        U.S.C. 2358 note));
            (B) the facilities of the Major Range and Test Facility 
        Base (as defined in section 2358a(f)(3) of title 10, United 
        States Code);
            (C) the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency; and
            (D) universities, federally funded research and development 
        centers, and service organizations with activities in software 
        engineering; and
        (6) the transition of relevant capabilities and technologies to 
    relevant programs of the Department, including software-reliant 
    cyber-physical systems, tactical systems, enterprise systems, and 
    business systems.
    (c) Submittal to Congress.--Not later than one year after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the official or entity designated under 
subsection (a) shall submit to the congressional defense committees the 
strategy developed under subsection (b).
    SEC. 256. ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE EDUCATION STRATEGY.
    (a) Strategy Required.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop a 
    strategy for educating servicemembers in relevant occupational 
    fields on matters relating to artificial intelligence.
        (2) Elements.--The strategy developed under subsection (a) 
    shall include a curriculum designed to give servicemembers a basic 
    knowledge of artificial intelligence. The curriculum shall include 
    instruction in--
            (A) artificial intelligence design;
            (B) software coding;
            (C) potential military applications for artificial 
        intelligence;
            (D) the impact of artificial intelligence on military 
        strategy and doctrine;
            (E) artificial intelligence decisionmaking via machine 
        learning and neural networks;
            (F) ethical issues relating to artificial intelligence;
            (G) the potential biases of artificial intelligence;
            (H) potential weakness in artificial intelligence 
        technology;
            (I) opportunities and risks; and
            (J) any other matters the Secretary of Defense determines 
        to be relevant.
    (b) Implementation Plan.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop a 
plan for implementing the strategy developed under subsection (a).
    (c) Submittal to Congress.--Not later than 270 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
the congressional defense committees--
        (1) the strategy developed under subsection (a); and
        (2) the implementation plan developed under subsection (b).
    SEC. 257. CYBER SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY ACTIVITIES ROADMAP AND 
      REPORTS.
    (a) Roadmap for Science and Technology Activities to Support 
Development of Cyber Capabilities.--
        (1) Roadmap required.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through 
    the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, shall 
    develop a roadmap for science and technology activities of the 
    Department of Defense to support development of cyber capabilities 
    to meet Department needs and missions.
        (2) Goal of consistency.--The Secretary shall develop the 
    roadmap required by paragraph (1) to ensure consistency with 
    appropriate Federal interagency, industry, and academic activities.
        (3) Scope.--The roadmap required by paragraph (1) shall--
            (A) cover the development of capabilities that will likely 
        see operational use within the next 25 years or earlier; and
            (B) address cyber operations and cybersecurity.
        (4) Consultation.--The Secretary shall develop the roadmap 
    required by paragraph (1) in consultation with the following:
            (A) The Chief Information Officer of the Department.
            (B) The secretaries and chiefs of the military departments.
            (C) The Director of Operational Test and Evaluation.
            (D) The Commander of the United States Cyber Command.
            (E) The Director of the National Security Agency.
            (F) The Director of the Defense Information Systems Agency.
            (G) The Director of the Defense Advanced Research Projects 
        Agency.
            (H) The Director of the Defense Digital Service.
            (I) Such interagency partners as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
        (5) Form.--The Secretary shall develop the roadmap required by 
    paragraph (1) in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
    annex.
        (6) Publication.--The Secretary shall make available to the 
    public the unclassified form of the roadmap developed pursuant to 
    paragraph (1).
    (b) Annual Report on Cyber Science and Technology Activities.--
        (1) Annual reports required.--In fiscal years 2021, 2022, and 
    2023, the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering 
    shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
    the science and technology activities within the Department of 
    Defense relating to cyber matters during the previous fiscal year, 
    the current fiscal year, and the following fiscal year.
        (2) Contents.--Each report submitted pursuant to paragraph (1) 
    shall include, for the period covered by the report, a description 
    and listing of the science and technology activities of the 
    Department relating to cyber matters, including the following:
            (A) Extramural science and technology activities.
            (B) Intramural science and technology activities.
            (C) Major and minor military construction activities.
            (D) Major prototyping and demonstration programs.
            (E) A list of agreements and activities to transition 
        capabilities to acquisition activities, including--
                (i) national security systems;
                (ii) business systems; and
                (iii) enterprise and network systems.
            (F) Efforts to enhance the national technical cybersecurity 
        workforce, including specific programs to support education, 
        training, internships, and hiring.
            (G) Efforts to perform cooperative activities with 
        international partners.
            (H) Efforts under the Small Business Innovation Research 
        and the Small Business Technology Transfer Program, including 
        estimated amounts to be expected in the following fiscal year.
            (I) Efforts to encourage partnerships between the 
        Department of Defense and universities participating in the 
        National Centers of Academic Excellence in Cyber Operations and 
        Cyber Defense.
        (3) Timing.--Each report submitted pursuant to paragraph (1) 
    shall be submitted concurrently with the annual budget request of 
    the President submitted pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, 
    United States Code.
        (4) Form.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    SEC. 258. REPORT ON B-52 COMMERCIAL ENGINE REPLACEMENT PROGRAM.
    (a) Documentation Required.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the B-52 
commercial engine replacement program of the Air Force.
    (b) Contents.--The report submitted under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        (1) The acquisition strategy of the Secretary for the program.
        (2) The cost and schedule estimates of the Secretary for the 
    program.
        (3) The key performance parameters or equivalent requirements 
    document for the program.
        (4) The test and evaluation strategy of the Secretary for the 
    program.
        (5) The logistics strategy of the Secretary for the program.
        (6) The post-production fielding strategy of the Secretary for 
    the program.
        (7) An assessment of the potential for the commercial engine 
    replacement to achieve nuclear system certification.
    (c) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2020 for the Air Force, 
not more than 75 percent may be obligated or expended until the date on 
which the Secretary of the Air Force submits to the congressional 
defense committees the report required by subsection (a).
    SEC. 259. COMMERCIAL EDGE COMPUTING TECHNOLOGIES AND BEST PRACTICES 
      FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE WARFIGHTING SYSTEMS.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition 
and Sustainment shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report on commercial edge computing technologies and best practices for 
Department of Defense warfighting systems.
    (b) Contents.--The report submitted under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        (1) Identification of initial warfighting system programs of 
    record that will benefit most from accelerated insertion of 
    commercial edge computing technologies and best practices, 
    resulting in significant near-term improvement in system 
    performance and mission capability.
        (2) The plan of the Department of Defense to provide additional 
    funding for the systems identified in paragraph (1) to achieve 
    fielding of accelerated commercial edge computing technologies 
    before or during fiscal year 2021.
        (3) The plan of the Department to identify, manage, and provide 
    additional funding for commercial edge computing technologies more 
    broadly over the next four fiscal years where appropriate for--
            (A) command, control, communications, and intelligence 
        systems;
            (B) logistics systems; and
            (C) other mission-critical systems.
        (4) A detailed description of the policies, procedures, 
    budgets, and accelerated acquisition and contracting mechanisms of 
    the Department for near-term insertion of commercial edge computing 
    technologies and best practices into military mission-critical 
    systems.
    SEC. 260. BIANNUAL REPORT ON THE JOINT ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE 
      CENTER.
    (a) Reports Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act and biannually thereafter through the end of 
2023, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report on the Joint Artificial Intelligence Center 
(referred to in this section as the ``Center'').
    (b) Elements.--Each report under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
        (1) Information relating to the mission and objectives of the 
    Center.
        (2) A description of the National Mission Initiatives, 
    Component Mission Initiatives, and any other initiatives of the 
    Center, including a description of--
            (A) the activities carried out under the initiatives;
            (B) any investments made or contracts entered into under 
        the initiatives; and
            (C) the progress of the initiatives.
        (3) A description of how the Center has sought to leverage 
    lessons learned, share best practices, avoid duplication of 
    efforts, and transition artificial intelligence research efforts 
    into operational capabilities by--
            (A) collaborating with other organizations and elements of 
        the Department of Defense, including the Defense Agencies and 
        the military departments; and
            (B) deconflicting the activities of the Center with the 
        activities of other organizations and elements of the 
        Department.
        (4) A description of any collaboration between--
            (A) the Center and the private sector, national 
        laboratories, and academia; and
            (B) the Center and international allies and partners.
        (5) The total number of military, contractor, and civilian 
    personnel who are employed by the Center, assigned to the Center, 
    and performing functions in support of the Center.
        (6) A description of the organizational structure and staffing 
    of the Center.
        (7) A detailed description of the frameworks, metrics, and 
    capabilities established to measure the effectiveness of the Center 
    and the Center's investments in the National Mission Initiatives 
    and Component Mission Initiatives.
        (8) A description of any new policies, standards, or guidance 
    relating to artificial intelligence that have been issued by the 
    Chief Information Officer of the Department.
        (9) Identification of any ethical guidelines applicable to the 
    use of artificial intelligence by the Department.
        (10) A description of any steps taken by the Center to protect 
    systems that use artificial intelligence from any attempts to 
    misrepresent or alter information used or provided by artificial 
    intelligence.
    (c) Joint Artificial Intelligence Center Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``Joint Artificial Intelligence Center'' means the Joint 
Artificial Intelligence Center of the Department of Defense established 
pursuant to section 238 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 10 U.S.C. 
2358 note).
    SEC. 261. QUARTERLY UPDATES ON THE OPTIONALLY MANNED FIGHTING 
      VEHICLE PROGRAM.
    (a) In General.--Beginning not later than December 1, 2019, and on 
a quarterly basis thereafter through October 1, 2022, the Assistant 
Secretary shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing on the progress of 
the Optionally Manned Fighting Vehicle program of the Army.
    (b) Elements.--Each briefing under subsection (a) shall include, 
with respect to the Optionally Manned Fighting Vehicle program, the 
following elements:
        (1) An overview of funding for the program, including 
    identification of--
            (A) any obligations and expenditures that have been made 
        under the program; and
            (B) any obligations and expenditures that are planned for 
        the program.
        (2) An overview of the program schedule.
        (3) An assessment of the status of the program with respect 
    to--
            (A) the development and approval of technical requirements;
            (B) technological maturity;
            (C) testing;
            (D) delivery; and
            (E) program management.
        (4) Any other matters that the Assistant Secretary considers 
    relevant to a full understanding of the status and plans of the 
    program.
    (c) Assistant Secretary Defined.--In this section, the term 
``Assistant Secretary'' means the Assistant Secretary of the Army for 
Acquisition, Logistics, and Technology (or the designee of the 
Assistant Secretary), in consultation with the Commander of the Army 
Futures Command (or the designee of the Commander).
    SEC. 262. NATIONAL STUDY ON DEFENSE RESEARCH AT HISTORICALLY BLACK 
      COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES AND OTHER MINORITY INSTITUTIONS.
    (a) Study Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter 
into an agreement with the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, 
and Medicine (referred to in this section as the ``National 
Academies'') under which the National Academies will conduct a study on 
the status of defense research at covered institutions and the methods 
and means necessary to advance research capacity at covered 
institutions to comprehensively address the national security and 
defense needs of the United States.
    (b) Designation.--The study conducted under subsection (a) shall be 
known as the ``National Study on Defense Research At Historically Black 
Colleges and Universities and Other Minority Institutions''.
    (c) Elements.--The study conducted under subsection (a) shall 
include an examination of each of the following:
        (1) The degree to which covered institutions are successful in 
    competing for and executing Department of Defense contracts and 
    grants for defense research.
        (2) Best practices for advancing the capacity of covered 
    institutions to compete for and conduct research programs related 
    to national security and defense.
        (3) The advancements and investments necessary to elevate 
    covered institutions to R2 status or R1 status on the Carnegie 
    Classification of Institutions of Higher Education, consistent with 
    the criteria of the classification system.
        (4) The facilities and infrastructure for defense-related 
    research at covered institutions as compared to the facilities and 
    infrastructure at institutions classified as R1 status on the 
    Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education.
        (5) Incentives to attract, recruit, and retain leading research 
    faculty to covered institutions.
        (6) Best practices of institutions classified as R1 status on 
    the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education, 
    including best practices with respect to--
            (A) the establishment of a distinct legal entity to--
                (i) enter into contracts or receive grants from the 
            Department;
                (ii) lay the groundwork for future research 
            opportunities;
                (iii) develop research proposals;
                (iv) engage with defense research funding 
            organizations; and
                (v) execute the administration of grants; and
            (B) determining the type of legal entity, if any, to 
        establish for the purposes described in subparagraph (A).
        (7) The ability of covered institutions to develop, protect, 
    and commercialize intellectual property created through defense-
    related research.
        (8) The total amount of defense research funding awarded to all 
    institutions of higher education, including covered institutions, 
    through contracts and grants for each of fiscal years 2010 through 
    2019 and, with respect to each such institution--
            (A) whether the institution established a distinct legal 
        entity to enter into contracts or receive grants from the 
        Department and, if so, the type of legal entity that was 
        established;
            (B) the total value of contracts and grants awarded to the 
        institution of higher education for each of fiscal years 2010 
        through 2019;
            (C) the overhead rate of the institution of higher 
        education for fiscal year 2019;
            (D) the institution's classification on the Carnegie 
        Classification of Institutions of Higher Education; and
            (E) whether the institution qualifies as a covered 
        institution.
        (9) Recommendations for strengthening and enhancing the 
    programs executed under section 2362 of title 10, United States 
    Code.
        (10) Recommendations to enhance the capacity of covered 
    institutions to transition research products into defense 
    acquisition programs or commercialization.
        (11) Previous executive or legislative actions by the Federal 
    Government to address imbalances in Federal research funding, 
    including such programs as the Defense Established Program to 
    Stimulate Competitive Research (commonly known as ``DEPSCoR'').
        (12) The effectiveness of the Department in attracting and 
    retaining students specializing in science, technology, 
    engineering, and mathematics fields from covered institutions for 
    the Department's programs on emerging capabilities and 
    technologies.
        (13) Recommendations for the development of incentives to 
    encourage research and educational collaborations between covered 
    institutions and other institutions of higher education.
        (14) Any other matters the Secretary of Defense determines to 
    be relevant to advancing the defense research capacity of covered 
    institutions.
    (d) Reports.--
        (1) Initial report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
    the President and the appropriate congressional committees an 
    initial report that includes--
            (A) the findings of the study conducted under subsection 
        (a); and
            (B) any recommendations that the National Academies may 
        have for action by the executive branch and Congress to improve 
        the participation of covered institutions in Department of 
        Defense research and any actions that may be carried out to 
        expand the research capacity of such institutions.
        (2) Final report.--Not later than December 31, 2021, the 
    Secretary of Defense shall submit to the President and the 
    appropriate congressional committees a comprehensive report on the 
    results of the study required under subsection (a).
        (3) Form of reports.--Each report submitted under this 
    subsection shall be made publicly available.
    (e) Implementation Required.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), not later 
    than March 1, 2022, the Secretary of Defense shall commence 
    implementation of each recommendation included in the final report 
    submitted under subsection (d)(2).
        (2) Exceptions.--
            (A) Delayed implementation.--The Secretary of Defense may 
        commence implementation of a recommendation described paragraph 
        (1) later than March 1, 2022, if--
                (i) the Secretary submits to the congressional defense 
            committees written notice of the intent of the Secretary to 
            delay implementation of the recommendation; and
                (ii) includes, as part of such notice, a specific 
            justification for the delay in implementing the 
            recommendation.
            (B) Nonimplementation.--The Secretary of Defense may elect 
        not to implement a recommendation described in paragraph (1), 
        if--
                (i) the Secretary submits to the congressional defense 
            committees written notice of the intent of the Secretary 
            not to implement the recommendation; and
                (ii) includes, as part of such notice--

                    (I) the reasons for the Secretary's decision not to 
                implement the recommendation; and
                    (II) a summary of alternative actions the Secretary 
                will carry out to address the purposes underlying the 
                recommendation.

        (3) Implementation plan.--For each recommendation that the 
    Secretary implements under this subsection, the Secretary shall 
    submit to the congressional defense committees an implementation 
    plan that includes--
            (A) a summary of actions that have been, or will be, 
        carried out to implement the recommendation; and
            (B) a schedule, with specific milestones, for completing 
        the implementation of the recommendation.
    (f) List of Covered Institutions.--The Secretary of Defense, in 
consultation with the Secretary of Education and the Presidents of the 
National Academies, shall make available a list identifying each 
covered institution examined as part of the study under subsection (a). 
The list shall be made available on a publicly accessible website and 
shall be updated not less frequently than once annually until the date 
on which the final report is submitted under subsection (d)(2).
    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the congressional defense committees;
            (B) the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions 
        of the Senate; and
            (C) the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of 
        Representatives.
        (2) The term ``covered institution'' means--
            (A) a part B institution (as that term is defined in 
        section 322(2) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        1061(2)); or
            (B) any other institution of higher education (as that term 
        is defined in section 101 of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1001)) at 
        which not less than 50 percent of the total student enrollment 
        consists of students from ethnic groups that are 
        underrepresented in the fields of science and engineering.
    SEC. 263. STUDY ON NATIONAL SECURITY EMERGING BIOTECHNOLOGIES FOR 
      THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Study Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall direct the 
    Defense Science Board to carry out a study on emerging 
    biotechnologies pertinent to national security.
        (2) Participation.--Participants in the study shall include the 
    following:
            (A) Such members of the Board as the Chairman of the Board 
        considers appropriate for the study.
            (B) Such additional temporary members or contracted support 
        as the Secretary--
                (i) selects from those recommended by the Chairman for 
            purposes of the study; and
                (ii) considers to have significant technical, policy, 
            or military expertise.
        (3) Elements.--The study conducted pursuant to paragraph (1) 
    shall include the following:
            (A) A review of the military understanding and relevancy of 
        applications of emerging biotechnologies to national security 
        requirements of the Department of Defense, including--
                (i) a review of all research and development relating 
            to emerging biotechnologies within the Department of 
            Defense, including areas that demand further priority and 
            investment;
                (ii) a review of interagency cooperation and 
            collaboration on research and development relating to 
            emerging biotechnologies between--

                    (I) the Department;
                    (II) other departments and agencies in the Federal 
                Government; and
                    (III) appropriate private sector entities that are 
                involved in research and development relating to 
                emerging biotechnologies;

                (iii) an assessment of current biotechnology research 
            in the commercial sector, institutions of higher education, 
            the intelligence community, and civilian agencies of the 
            Federal Government relevant to critical Department of 
            Defense applications of this research;
                (iv) an assessment of the potential national security 
            risks of emerging biotechnologies, including risks relating 
            to foreign powers advancing their use of emerging 
            biotechnologies for military applications and other 
            purposes faster than the Department; and
                (v) an assessment of the knowledge base of the 
            Department with respect to emerging biotechnologies, 
            including scientific expertise and infrastructure in the 
            Department and the capacity of the Department to integrate 
            emerging biotechnologies into its operational concepts, 
            capabilities, and forces.
            (B) An assessment of the technical basis within the 
        Department used to inform the intelligence community of the 
        Department's collection and analysis needs relating to emerging 
        biotechnologies.
            (C) Development of a recommendation on a definition of 
        emerging biotechnologies, as appropriate for the Department.
            (D) Development of such recommendations as the Board may 
        have for legislative or administrative action relating to 
        national security emerging biotechnologies for the Department.
        (4) Access to information.--The Secretary shall provide the 
    Board with timely access to appropriate information, data, 
    resources, and analysis so that the Board may conduct a thorough 
    and independent analysis as required under this section.
        (5) Report.--(A) Not later than one year after the date on 
    which the Secretary directs the Board to conduct the study pursuant 
    to paragraph (1), the Board shall transmit to the Secretary a final 
    report on the study.
        (B) Not later than 30 days after the date on which the 
    Secretary receives the final report under subparagraph (A), the 
    Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees such 
    report and such comments as the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (b) Briefing Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide the 
congressional defense committees a briefing on potential national 
security risks of emerging biotechnologies, including risks relating to 
foreign powers advancing their use of emerging biotechnologies for 
military applications and other purposes faster than the Department.
    SEC. 264. INDEPENDENT STUDY ON OPTIMIZING RESOURCES ALLOCATED TO 
      COMBATING TERRORISM TECHNICAL SUPPORT OFFICE.
    (a) Independent Study.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter 
into a contract with a federally funded research and development center 
under which the center will conduct a study on the optimal use of 
resources allocated to the Combating Terrorism Technical Support 
Office.
    (b) Elements of Study.--In carrying out the study referred to in 
subsection (a), the federally funded research and development center 
with which the Secretary enters into a contract under such subsection 
shall--
        (1) evaluate the current mission and organization of the 
    Combating Terrorism Technical Support Office and its relation to 
    the objectives outlined in the National Defense Strategy;
        (2) assess the extent to which the activities of the Combating 
    Terrorism Technical Support Office are complementary to and 
    coordinated with other relevant activities by other Department of 
    Defense entities, including activities of the Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Research and Engineering, the Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, United States Special 
    Operations Command, and the military departments; and
        (3) identify opportunities to improve the efficiency and 
    effectiveness of the Combating Terrorism Technical Support Office, 
    including through increased coordination, realignment, or 
    consolidation with other entities of the Department of Defense, if 
    appropriate.
    (c) Submission to Department of Defense.--Not later than 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the federally funded 
research and development center that conducts the study under 
subsection (a) shall submit to the Secretary of Defense a report on the 
results of the study in both classified and unclassified form.
    (d) Submission to Congress.--Not later than 30 days after the date 
on which the Secretary of Defense receives the report under subsection 
(c), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
an unaltered copy of the report in both classified and unclassified 
form, and such comments as the Secretary may have with respect to the 
report.
    SEC. 265. INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT OF ELECTRONIC WARFARE PLANS AND 
      PROGRAMS.
    (a) Assessment.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act and pursuant to the arrangement entered into 
under section 222, the Secretary of Defense shall seek to engage the 
private scientific advisory group known as ``JASON'' to carry out an 
independent assessment of electronic warfare plans and programs.
    (b) Elements.--In carrying out the assessment under subsection (a), 
JASON shall--
        (1) assess the strategies, programs, order of battle, and 
    doctrine of the Department of Defense related to the electronic 
    warfare mission area and electromagnetic spectrum operations;
        (2) assess the strategies, programs, order of battle, and 
    doctrine of potential adversaries, such as China, Iran, and the 
    Russian Federation, related to the such mission area and 
    operations;
        (3) develop recommendations for improvements to the strategies, 
    programs, and doctrine of the Department of Defense in order to 
    enable the United States to achieve and maintain superiority in the 
    electromagnetic spectrum in future conflicts; and
        (4) develop recommendations for the Secretary of Defense, 
    Congress, and such other Federal entities as JASON considers 
    appropriate, including recommendations for--
            (A) closing technical, policy, or resource gaps;
            (B) improving cooperation and appropriate integration 
        within the Department of Defense entities;
            (C) improving cooperation between the United States and 
        other countries and international organizations as appropriate; 
        and
            (D) such other important matters identified by JASON that 
        are directly relevant to the strategies of the Department of 
        Defense described in paragraph (3).
    (c) Liaisons.--The Secretary of Defense shall appoint appropriate 
liaisons to JASON to support the timely conduct of the services covered 
by this section.
    (d) Materials.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide access to 
JASON to materials relevant to the services covered by this section, 
consistent with the protection of sources and methods and other 
critically sensitive information.
    (e) Clearances.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that 
appropriate members and staff of JASON have the necessary clearances, 
obtained in an expedited manner, to conduct the services covered by 
this section.
    (f) Report.--Not later than October 1, 2020, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
on the results of the assessment carried out under subsection (a), 
including--
        (1) the results of the assessment with respect to each element 
    described in subsection (b);
        (2) the recommendations developed by JASON pursuant to such 
    subsection.
    (g) Relationship to Other Law.--The assessment required under 
subsection (a) is separate and independent from the assessment 
described in section 255 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 
1705) and shall be carried out without regard to any agreement entered 
into under that section or the results of any assessment conducted 
pursuant to such agreement.
    SEC. 266. TECHNICAL CORRECTION TO GLOBAL RESEARCH WATCH PROGRAM.
    Section 2365 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsections (a) and (d)(2), by striking ``Assistant 
    Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering'' both places it 
    appears and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
    Engineering'';
        (2) in subsections (d)(3) and (e), by striking ``Assistant 
    Secretary'' both places it appears and inserting ``Under Secretary 
    of Defense for Research and Engineering''; and
        (3) in subsection (d), by striking ``Assistant Secretary'' both 
    places it appears and inserting ``Under Secretary''.

                  TITLE III--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 301. Authorization of appropriations.

                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

Sec. 311. Timeline for Clearinghouse review of applications for energy 
          projects that may have an adverse impact on military 
          operations and readiness.
Sec. 312. Authority to accept contributions of funds from applicants for 
          energy projects for mitigation of impacts on military 
          operations and readiness.
Sec. 313. Use of proceeds from sale of recyclable materials.
Sec. 314. Disposal of recyclable materials.
Sec. 315. Department of Defense improvement of previously conveyed 
          utility systems serving military installations.
Sec. 316. Modification of Department of Defense environmental 
          restoration authorities to include Federal Government 
          facilities used by National Guard.
Sec. 317. Use of operational energy cost savings of Department of 
          Defense.
Sec. 318. Sale of electricity from alternate energy and cogeneration 
          production facilities.
Sec. 319. Energy resilience programs and activities.
Sec. 320. Technical and grammatical corrections and repeal of obsolete 
          provisions relating to energy.
Sec. 321. Transfer authority for funding of study and assessment on 
          health implications of per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances 
          contamination in drinking water by Agency for Toxic Substances 
          and Disease Registry.
Sec. 322. Replacement of fluorinated aqueous film-forming foam with 
          fluorine-free fire-fighting agent.
Sec. 323. Prohibition of uncontrolled release of fluorinated aqueous 
          film-forming foam at military installations.
Sec. 324. Prohibition on use of fluorinated aqueous film forming foam 
          for training exercises.
Sec. 325. Real-time sound-monitoring at Navy installations where 
          tactical fighter aircraft operate.
Sec. 326. Development of extreme weather vulnerability and risk 
          assessment tool.
Sec. 327. Removal of barriers that discourage investments to increase 
          military installation resilience.
Sec. 328. Budgeting of Department of Defense relating to extreme 
          weather.
Sec. 329. Prohibition on Perfluoroalkyl Substances and Polyfluoroalkyl 
          Substances in Meals Ready-to-Eat Food Packaging.
Sec. 330. Disposal of materials containing per- and polyfluoroalkyl 
          substances or aqueous film-forming foam.
Sec. 331. Agreements to share monitoring data relating to perfluoroalkyl 
          and polyfluoroalkyl substances and other contaminants of 
          concern.
Sec. 332. Cooperative agreements with States to address contamination by 
          perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances.
Sec. 333. Plan to phase out use of burn pits.
Sec. 334. Information relating to locations of burn pit use.
Sec. 335. Data quality review of radium testing conducted at certain 
          locations of the Department of the Navy.
Sec. 336. Reimbursement of Environmental Protection Agency for certain 
          costs in connection with the Twin Cities Army Ammunition 
          Plant, Minnesota.
Sec. 337. Pilot program for availability of working-capital funds for 
          increased combat capability through energy optimization.
Sec. 338. Report on efforts to reduce high energy intensity at military 
          installations.

 Subtitle C--Treatment of Contaminated Water Near Military Installations

Sec. 341. Short title.
Sec. 342. Definitions.
Sec. 343. Provision of water uncontaminated with perfluorooctanoic acid 
          (PFOA) and perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) for agricultural 
          purposes.
Sec. 344. Acquisition of real property by Air Force.
Sec. 345. Remediation plan.

                  Subtitle D--Logistics and Sustainment

Sec. 351. Materiel readiness metrics and objectives.
Sec. 352. Clarification of authority regarding use of working-capital 
          funds for unspecified minor military construction projects 
          related to revitalization and recapitalization of defense 
          industrial base facilities.
Sec. 353. Modification to limitation on length of overseas forward 
          deployment of naval vessels.
Sec. 354. Extension of temporary installation reutilization authority 
          for arsenals, depots, and plants.
Sec. 355. F-35 Joint Strike Fighter sustainment.
Sec. 356. Report on strategic policy for prepositioned materiel and 
          equipment.
Sec. 357. Pilot program to train skilled technicians in critical 
          shipbuilding skills.
Sec. 358. Requirement for military department inter-service depot 
          maintenance.
Sec. 359. Strategy to improve infrastructure of certain depots of the 
          Department of Defense.

                           Subtitle E--Reports

Sec. 361. Readiness reporting.
Sec. 362. Technical correction to deadline for transition to Defense 
          Readiness Reporting System Strategic.
Sec. 363. Report on Navy ship depot maintenance budget.
Sec. 364. Report on Runit Dome.
Sec. 365. Prohibition on subjective upgrades by commanders of unit 
          ratings in monthly readiness reporting on military units.
Sec. 366. Requirement to include foreign language proficiency in 
          readiness reporting systems of Department of Defense.

                        Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 371. Prevention of encroachment on military training routes and 
          military operations areas.
Sec. 372. Expansion and enhancement of authorities on transfer and 
          adoption of military animals.
Sec. 373. Extension of authority for Secretary of Defense to use 
          Department of Defense reimbursement rate for transportation 
          services provided to certain non-Department of Defense 
          entities.
Sec. 374. Extension of authority of Secretary of Transportation to issue 
          non-premium aviation insurance.
Sec. 375. Defense personal property program.
Sec. 376. Public events about Red Hill Bulk Fuel Storage Facility.
Sec. 377. Sense of Congress regarding Innovative Readiness Training 
          program.
Sec. 378. Detonation chambers for explosive ordnance disposal.

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

    SEC. 301. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
operation and maintenance, as specified in the funding table in section 
4301.

                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

    SEC. 311. TIMELINE FOR CLEARINGHOUSE REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS FOR 
      ENERGY PROJECTS THAT MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON MILITARY 
      OPERATIONS AND READINESS.
    Section 183a(c)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``60 days'' and inserting ``75 days''.
    SEC. 312. AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT CONTRIBUTIONS OF FUNDS FROM 
      APPLICANTS FOR ENERGY PROJECTS FOR MITIGATION OF IMPACTS ON 
      MILITARY OPERATIONS AND READINESS.
    Section 183a(f) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``for a project filed with the Secretary of Transportation 
pursuant to section 44718 of title 49'' and inserting ``for an energy 
project''.
    SEC. 313. USE OF PROCEEDS FROM SALE OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
    Section 2577(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``$2,000,000'' and inserting ``$10,000,000''.
    SEC. 314. DISPOSAL OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
    Section 2577(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) In this section, the term `recyclable materials' may include 
any quality recyclable material provided to the Department by a State 
or local government entity, if such material is authorized by the 
Office of the Secretary of Defense and identified in the regulations 
prescribed under paragraph (1).''.
    SEC. 315. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE IMPROVEMENT OF PREVIOUSLY CONVEYED 
      UTILITY SYSTEMS SERVING MILITARY INSTALLATIONS.
    Section 2688 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (k) as subsection (l); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (j) the following new 
    subsection (k):
    ``(k) Improvement of Conveyed Utility Systems.--In the case of a 
utility system that is conveyed under this section and that only 
provides utility services to a military installation, the Secretary 
concerned may use amounts authorized to be appropriated for military 
construction to improve the reliability, resilience, efficiency, 
physical security, or cybersecurity of the utility system.''.
    SEC. 316. MODIFICATION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL 
      RESTORATION AUTHORITIES TO INCLUDE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT FACILITIES 
      USED BY NATIONAL GUARD.
    (a) In General.--Section 2707 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Authority for National Guard Projects.--Notwithstanding 
subsection (a) of this section and section 2701(c)(1) of this title, 
the Secretary concerned may use funds described in subsection (c) to 
carry out an environmental restoration project at a facility in 
response to perfluorooctanoic acid or perfluorooctane sulfonate 
contamination under this chapter or CERCLA.''.
    (b) Definition of Facility.--Section 2700(2) of such title is 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``The terms'' and inserting ``(A) The terms''; 
    and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
        ``(B) The term `facility' includes real property that is owned 
    by, leased to, or otherwise possessed by the United States at 
    locations at which military activities are conducted under this 
    title or title 32 (including real property owned or leased by the 
    Federal Government that is licensed to and operated by a State for 
    training for the National Guard).''.
    (c) Inclusion of Pollutants and Contaminants in Environmental 
Response Actions.--Section 2701(c) of such title is amended by 
inserting ``or pollutants or contaminants'' after ``hazardous 
substances'' each place it appears.
    (d) Savings Clause.--Nothing in this section, or the amendments 
made by this section, shall affect any requirement or authority under 
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability 
Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.).
    SEC. 317. USE OF OPERATIONAL ENERGY COST SAVINGS OF DEPARTMENT OF 
      DEFENSE.
    Section 2912 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``subsection (b)'' and 
    inserting ``subsection (b) or (c), as the case may be,'';
        (2) in subsection (b), in the matter preceding paragraph (1), 
    by striking ``The Secretary of Defense'' and inserting ``Except as 
    provided in subsection (c) with respect to operational energy cost 
    savings, the Secretary of Defense'';
        (3) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
        (4) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
    subsection (c):
    ``(c) Use of Operational Energy Cost Savings.--The amount that 
remains available for obligation under subsection (a) that relates to 
operational energy cost savings realized by the Department shall be 
used for the implementation of additional operational energy 
resilience, efficiencies, mission assurance, energy conservation, or 
energy security within the department, agency, or instrumentality that 
realized that savings.''.
    SEC. 318. SALE OF ELECTRICITY FROM ALTERNATE ENERGY AND 
      COGENERATION PRODUCTION FACILITIES.
    Section 2916(b)(3)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking ``shall be available'' and all that follows and 
    inserting ``shall be provided directly to the commander of the 
    military installation in which the geothermal energy resource is 
    located to be used for--''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new clauses:
            ``(i) military construction projects described in paragraph 
        (2) that benefit the military installation where the geothermal 
        energy resource is located; or
            ``(ii) energy or water security projects that--
                ``(I) benefit the military installation where the 
            geothermal energy resource is located;
                ``(II) the commander of the military installation 
            determines are necessary; and
                ``(III) are directly coordinated with local area energy 
            or groundwater governing authorities.''.
    SEC. 319. ENERGY RESILIENCE PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES.
    (a) Modification of Annual Energy Management and Resilience 
Report.--Section 2925(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``and Readiness'' 
    after ``Mission Assurance'';
        (2) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting ``The 
    Secretary shall ensure that mission operators of critical 
    facilities provide to personnel of military installations any 
    information necessary for the completion of such report.'' after 
    ``by the Secretary.'';
        (3) in paragraph (4), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), 
    by striking ``megawatts'' and inserting ``electric and thermal 
    loads''; and
        (4) in paragraph (5), by striking ``megawatts'' and inserting 
    ``electric and thermal loads''.
    (b) Funding for Energy Program Offices.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretaries of the military departments 
    shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
    stating whether the program offices specified in paragraph (2) are 
    funded--
            (A) at proper levels to ensure that the energy resilience 
        requirements of the Department of Defense are met; and
            (B) at levels that are not less than in any previous fiscal 
        year.
        (2) Program offices specified.--The program offices specified 
    in this paragraph are the following:
            (A) The Power Reliability Enhancement Program of the Army.
            (B) The Office of Energy Initiatives of the Army.
            (C) The Office of Energy Assurance of the Air Force.
            (D) The Resilient Energy Program Office of the Navy.
        (3) Funding plan.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretaries of the military 
        departments shall include in the report submitted under 
        paragraph (1) a funding plan for the next five fiscal years 
        beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act to ensure 
        that funding levels are, at a minimum, maintained during that 
        period.
            (B) Elements.--The funding plan under subparagraph (A) 
        shall include, for each fiscal year covered by the plan, an 
        identification of the amounts to be used for the accomplishment 
        of energy resilience goals and objectives.
    (c) Establishment of Targets for Water Use.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall, where life-cycle cost-effective, improve water use 
efficiency and management by the Department of Defense, including storm 
water management, by--
        (1) installing water meters and collecting and using water 
    balance data of buildings and facilities to improve water 
    conservation and management;
        (2) reducing industrial, landscaping, and agricultural water 
    consumption in gallons by two percent annually through fiscal year 
    2030 relative to a baseline of such consumption by the Department 
    in fiscal year 2010; and
        (3) installing appropriate sustainable infrastructure features 
    on installations of the Department to help with storm water and 
    wastewater management.
    SEC. 320. TECHNICAL AND GRAMMATICAL CORRECTIONS AND REPEAL OF 
      OBSOLETE PROVISIONS RELATING TO ENERGY.
    (a) Technical and Grammatical Corrections.--
        (1) Technical corrections.--Title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended--
            (A) in section 2913(c), by striking ``government'' and 
        inserting ``government or''; and
            (B) in section 2926(d)(1), in the second sentence, by 
        striking ``Defense Agencies'' and inserting ``the Defense 
        Agencies''.
        (2) Grammatical corrections.--Such title is further amended--
            (A) in section 2922a(d), by striking ``resilience are 
        prioritized and included'' and inserting ``energy resilience 
        are included as critical factors''; and
            (B) in section 2925(a)(3), by striking ``impacting energy'' 
        and all that follows through the period at the end and 
        inserting ``degrading energy resilience at military 
        installations (excluding planned outages for maintenance 
        reasons), whether caused by on- or off-installation 
        disruptions, including the total number of outages and their 
        locations, the duration of each outage, the financial effect of 
        each outage, whether or not the mission was affected, the 
        downtimes (in minutes or hours) the mission can afford based on 
        mission requirements and risk tolerances, the responsible 
        authority managing the utility, and measures taken to mitigate 
        the outage by the responsible authority.''.
    (b) Clarification of Applicability of Conflicting Amendments Made 
by 2018 Defense Authorization Act.--Section 2911(e) of such title is 
amended--
        (1) by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting the 
    following new paragraphs:
        ``(1) Opportunities to reduce the current rate of consumption 
    of energy, the future demand for energy, and the requirement for 
    the use of energy.
        ``(2) Opportunities to enhance energy resilience to ensure the 
    Department of Defense has the ability to prepare for and recover 
    from energy disruptions that affect mission assurance on military 
    installations.''; and
        (2) by striking the second paragraph (13).
    (c) Conforming and Clerical Amendments.--
        (1) Heading amendment.--The heading of section 2926 of such 
    title is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 2926. Operational energy''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 173 of such title is amended by striking the item 
    relating to section 2926 and inserting the following new item:

``2926. Operational energy.''.
    SEC. 321. TRANSFER AUTHORITY FOR FUNDING OF STUDY AND ASSESSMENT ON 
      HEALTH IMPLICATIONS OF PER- AND POLYFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES 
      CONTAMINATION IN DRINKING WATER BY AGENCY FOR TOXIC SUBSTANCES 
      AND DISEASE REGISTRY.
    Section 316(a)(2)(B)(ii) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1350), as amended by 
section 315(a) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), is amended by striking 
``2019 and 2020'' and inserting ``2019, 2020, and 2021''.
    SEC. 322. REPLACEMENT OF FLUORINATED AQUEOUS FILM-FORMING FOAM WITH 
      FLUORINE-FREE FIRE-FIGHTING AGENT.
    (a) Use of Fluorine-free Foam at Military Installations.--
        (1) Military specification.--Not later than January 31, 2023, 
    the Secretary of the Navy shall publish a military specification 
    for a fluorine-free fire-fighting agent for use at all military 
    installations and ensure that such agent is available for use by 
    not later than October 1, 2023.
        (2) Report to congress.--Concurrent with publication of the 
    military specification under paragraph (1), the Secretary of 
    Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
    report containing a detailed plan for implementing the transition 
    to a fluorine-free fire-fighting agent by not later than October 1, 
    2023. The report shall include--
            (A) a detailed description of the progress of the 
        Department of Defense to identify a fluorine-free fire-fighting 
        agent for use as a replacement fire-fighting agent at military 
        installations;
            (B) a description of any technology and equipment required 
        to implement the replacement fire-fighting agent;
            (C) funding requirements, by fiscal year, to implement the 
        replacement fire-fighting agent, including funding for the 
        procurement of a replacement fire-fighting agent, required 
        equipment, and infrastructure improvements;
            (D) a detailed timeline of remaining required actions to 
        implement such replacement.
    (b) Limitation.--No amount authorized to be appropriated or 
otherwise made available for the Department of Defense may be obligated 
or expended after October 1, 2023, to procure fire-fighting foam that 
contains in excess of one part per billion of perfluoroalkyl substances 
and polyfluoroalkyl substances.
    (c) Prohibition on Use.--Fluorinated aqueous film-forming foam may 
not be used at any military installation on or after the earlier of the 
following dates:
        (1) October 1, 2024.
        (2) The date on which the Secretary determines that compliance 
    with the prohibition under this subsection is possible.
    (d) Exemption for Shipboard Use.--Subsections (b) and (c) shall not 
apply to firefighting foam for use solely onboard ocean-going vessels.
    (e) Waiver.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to the limitations under paragraph 
    (2), the Secretary of Defense may waive the prohibition under 
    subsection (c) with respect to the use of fluorinated aqueous film-
    forming foam, if, by not later than 60 days prior to issuing the 
    waiver, the Secretary--
            (A) provides to the congressional defense committees a 
        briefing on the basis for the waiver and the progress to 
        develop and field a fluorine-free fire-fighting agent that 
        meets the military specifications issued pursuant to subsection 
        (a), which includes--
                (i) detailed data on the progress made to identify a 
            replacement fluorine-free fire-fighting agent;
                (ii) a description of the range of technology and 
            equipment-based solutions analyzed to implement 
            replacement;
                (iii) a description of the funding, by fiscal year, 
            applied towards research, development, test, and evaluation 
            of replacement firefighting agents and equipment-based 
            solutions;
                (iv) a description of any completed and projected 
            infrastructure changes;
                (v) a description of acquisition actions made in 
            support of developing and fielding the fluorine-free fire-
            fighting agent;
                (vi) an updated timeline for the completion of the 
            transition to use of the fluorine-free fire-fighting agent; 
            and
                (vii) a list of the categories of installation 
            infrastructure or specific mobile firefighting equipment 
            sets that require the waiver along with the justification;
            (B) submits to the congressional defense committees 
        certification in writing, that--
                (i) the waiver is necessary for either installation 
            infrastructure, mobile firefighting equipment, or both;
                (ii) the waiver is necessary for the protection of life 
            and safety;
                (iii) no agent or equipment solutions are available 
            that meet the military specific issued pursuant to 
            subsection (a);
                (iv) the military specification issued pursuant to 
            subsection (a) is still valid and does not require 
            revision; and
                (v) includes details of the measures in place to 
            minimize the release of and exposure to fluorinated 
            compounds in fluorinated aqueous film-forming foam; and
            (C) provides for public notice of the waiver.
        (2) Limitation.--The following limitations apply to a waiver 
    issued under this subsection:
            (A) Such a waiver shall apply for a period that does not 
        exceed one year.
            (B) The Secretary may extend such a waiver once for an 
        additional period that does not exceed one year, if the 
        requirements under paragraph (1) are met as of the date of the 
        extension of the waiver.
            (C) The authority to grant a waiver under this subsection 
        may not be delegated below the level of the Secretary of 
        Defense.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``perfluoroalkyl substances'' means aliphatic 
    substances for which all of the H atoms attached to C atoms in the 
    nonfluorinated substance from which they are notionally derived 
    have been replaced by F atoms, except those H atoms whose 
    substitution would modify the nature of any functional groups 
    present.
        (2) The term ``polyfluoroalkyl substances'' means aliphatic 
    substances for which all H atoms attached to at least one (but not 
    all) C atoms have been replaced by F atoms, in such a manner that 
    they contain the perfluoroalkyl moiety CnF2n+1_ (for example, 
    C8F17CH2CH2OH).
    SEC. 323. PROHIBITION OF UNCONTROLLED RELEASE OF FLUORINATED 
      AQUEOUS FILM-FORMING FOAM AT MILITARY INSTALLATIONS.
    (a) Prohibition.--Except as provided by subsection (b), the 
Secretary of Defense shall prohibit the uncontrolled release of 
fluorinated aqueous film-forming foam (hereinafter in this section 
referred to as ``AFFF'') at military installations.
    (b) Exceptions.--Notwithstanding subsection (a), fluorinated AFFF 
may be released at military installations as follows:
        (1) AFFF may be released for purposes of an emergency response.
        (2) A non-emergency release of AFFF may be made for the 
    purposes of testing of equipment or training of personnel, if 
    complete containment, capture, and proper disposal mechanisms are 
    in place to ensure no AFFF is released into the environment.
    SEC. 324. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FLUORINATED AQUEOUS FILM FORMING 
      FOAM FOR TRAINING EXERCISES.
    The Secretary of Defense shall prohibit the use of fluorinated 
aqueous film forming foam for training exercises at military 
installations.
    SEC. 325. REAL-TIME SOUND-MONITORING AT NAVY INSTALLATIONS WHERE 
      TACTICAL FIGHTER AIRCRAFT OPERATE.
    (a) Monitoring.--The Secretary of the Navy shall conduct real-time 
sound-monitoring at no fewer than two Navy installations and their 
associated outlying landing fields on the west coast of the United 
States where Navy combat coded F/A-18, E/A-18G, or F-35 aircraft are 
based and operate and noise contours have been developed through noise 
modeling. Sound monitoring under such study shall be conducted--
        (1) during times of high, medium, and low activity over the 
    course of a 12-month period; and
        (2) along and in the vicinity of flight paths used to approach 
    and depart the selected installations and their outlying landing 
    fields.
    (b) Plan for Additional Monitoring.--Not later than 90 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a plan for real-time 
sound monitoring described in subsection (a) in the vicinity of 
training areas predominantly overflown by tactical fighter aircraft 
from the selected installations and outlying landing fields, including 
training areas that consist of real property administered by the 
Federal Government (including Department of Defense, Department of 
Interior, and Department of Agriculture), State and local governments, 
and privately owned land with the permission of the owner.
    (c) Report Required.--Not later than December 1, 2020, the 
Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on the monitoring required under subsection (a). 
Such report shall include--
        (1) the results of such monitoring;
        (2) a comparison of such monitoring and the noise contours 
    previously developed with the analysis and modeling methods 
    previously used;
        (3) an overview of any changes to the analysis and modeling 
    process that have been made or are being considered as a result of 
    the findings of such monitoring; and
        (4) any other matters that the Secretary determines 
    appropriate.
    (d) Public Availability of Monitoring Results.--The Secretary shall 
make the results of the monitoring required under subsection (a) 
publicly available on a website of the Department of Defense.
    SEC. 326. DEVELOPMENT OF EXTREME WEATHER VULNERABILITY AND RISK 
      ASSESSMENT TOOL.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall consult with the 
entities described in subsection (b) to determine whether an existing 
climate vulnerability and risk assessment tool is available or can be 
adapted to be used to quantify the risks associated with extreme 
weather events and the impact of such events on networks, systems, 
installations, facilities, and other assets to inform mitigation 
planning and infrastructure development.
    (b) Consultation.--In determining the availability of an 
appropriate tool to use or adapt for use under subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall consult with the Administrator of the Environmental 
Protection Agency, the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of the 
Interior, the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, the Commander of the Army Corps of Engineers, the Administrator 
of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, a federally 
funded research and development center, and the heads of such other 
relevant Federal agencies as the Secretary of Defense determines 
appropriate.
    (c) Best Available Science.--Before choosing a tool for use or 
adaptation for use under subsection (a), the Secretary shall obtain 
from a federally funded research and development center with which the 
Secretary has consulted under subsection (b) a certification in writing 
that the tool relies on the best publicly available science for the 
prediction of extreme weather risk and effective mitigation of that 
risk.
    (d) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report on the implementation of this section. Such 
report shall include--
        (1) in the case that a tool has been chosen under subsection 
    (a) before the date of the submittal of the report, a description 
    of the tool and how such tool will be used by the Department; or
        (2) in the case that the Secretary determines that no available 
    tool meets the requirements of the Department as described in 
    subsection (a) or is readily adaptable for use, a plan for the 
    development of such a tool, including the estimated cost and 
    timeframe for development of such a tool.
    SEC. 327. REMOVAL OF BARRIERS THAT DISCOURAGE INVESTMENTS TO 
      INCREASE MILITARY INSTALLATION RESILIENCE.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall--
        (1) identify and seek to remove barriers that discourage 
    investments to increase military installation resilience;
        (2) reform policies and programs that unintentionally increased 
    the vulnerability of systems to related extreme weather events; and
        (3) develop, and update at least once every four years, an 
    adaptation plan to assess how climate impacts affected the ability 
    of the Department of Defense to accomplish its mission, and the 
    short-and long- term actions the Department can take to ensure 
    military installation resilience.
    (b) Military Installation Resilience.--In this section, the term 
``military installation resilience'' has the meaning given such term in 
section 101(e)(8) of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 328. BUDGETING OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE RELATING TO EXTREME 
      WEATHER.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall include in the 
annual budget submission of the President under section 1105(a) of 
title 31, United States Code--
        (1) a dedicated budget line item for adaptation to, and 
    mitigation of, effects of extreme weather on military networks, 
    systems, installations, facilities, and other assets and 
    capabilities of the Department of Defense; and
        (2) an estimate of the anticipated adverse impacts to the 
    readiness of the Department and the financial costs to the 
    Department during the year covered by the budget of the loss of, or 
    damage to, military networks, systems, installations, facilities, 
    and other assets and capabilities of the Department, including loss 
    of or obstructed access to training ranges, as a result extreme 
    weather events.
    (b) Disaggregation of Impacts and Costs.--The estimate under 
subsection (a)(2) shall set forth the adverse readiness impacts and 
financial costs under that subsection by military department, Defense 
Agency, and other component or element of the Department.
    (c) Extreme Weather Defined.--In this section, the term ``extreme 
weather'' means recurrent flooding, drought, desertification, 
wildfires, and thawing permafrost.
    SEC. 329. PROHIBITION ON PERFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES AND 
      POLYFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES IN MEALS READY-TO-EAT FOOD PACKAGING.
    (a) Prohibition.--Not later than October 1, 2021, the Director of 
the Defense Logistics Agency shall ensure that any food contact 
substances that are used to assemble and package meals ready-to-eat 
(MREs) procured by the Defense Logistics Agency do not contain any 
perfluoroalkyl substances or polyfluoroalkyl substances.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Perfluoroalkyl substance.--The term ``perfluoroalkyl 
    substance'' means a man-made chemical of which all of the carbon 
    atoms are fully fluorinated carbon atoms.
        (2) Polyfluoroalkyl substance.--The term ``polyfluoroalkyl 
    substance'' means a man-made chemical containing a mix of fully 
    fluorinated carbon atoms, partially fluorinated carbon atoms, and 
    nonfluorinated carbon atoms.
    SEC. 330. DISPOSAL OF MATERIALS CONTAINING PER- AND POLYFLUOROALKYL 
      SUBSTANCES OR AQUEOUS FILM-FORMING FOAM.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that when 
materials containing per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (referred to 
in this section as ``PFAS'') or aqueous film forming foam (referred to 
in this section as ``AFFF'') are disposed--
        (1) all incineration is conducted at a temperature range 
    adequate to break down PFAS chemicals while also ensuring the 
    maximum degree of reduction in emission of PFAS, including 
    elimination of such emissions where achievable;
        (2) all incineration is conducted in accordance with the 
    requirements of the Clean Air Act (42 USC 7401 et seq.), including 
    controlling hydrogen fluoride;
        (3) any materials containing PFAS that are designated for 
    disposal are stored in accordance with the requirement under part 
    264 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations; and
        (4) all incineration is conducted at a facility that has been 
    permitted to receive waste regulated under subtitle C of the Solid 
    Waste Disposal Act (42 USC 6921 et seq.).
    (b) Scope of Application.--The requirements in subsection (a) only 
apply to all legacy AFFF formulations containing PFAS, materials 
contaminated by AFFF release, and spent filters or other PFAS 
contaminated materials resulting from site remediation or water 
filtration that--
        (1) have been used by the Department of Defense or a military 
    department; or
        (2) are being discarded for disposal by means of incineration 
    by the Department of Defense or a military department; or
        (3) are being removed from sites or facilities owned or 
    operated by the Department of Defense.
    SEC. 331. AGREEMENTS TO SHARE MONITORING DATA RELATING TO 
      PERFLUOROALKYL AND POLYFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES AND OTHER 
      CONTAMINANTS OF CONCERN.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter into 
agreements with municipalities or municipal drinking water utilities 
located adjacent to military installations under which both the 
Secretary and the municipalities and utilities would share monitoring 
data relating to perfluoroalkyl substances, polyfluoroalkyl substances, 
and other emerging contaminants of concern collected at the military 
installation.
    (b) Publicly Available Website.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
maintain a publicly available website that provides a clearinghouse for 
information about the exposure of members of the Armed Forces, their 
families, and their communities to per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances. 
The information provided on the website shall include information on 
testing, clean-up, and recommended available treatment methodologies.
    (c) Public Communication.--An agreement under subsection (a) does 
not negate the responsibility of the Secretary to communicate with the 
public about drinking water contamination from perfluoroalkyl 
substances, polyfluoroalkyl substances, and other contaminants.
    (d) Military Installation Defined.--In this section, the term 
``military installation'' has the meaning given that term in section 
2801(c) of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 332. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS WITH STATES TO ADDRESS 
      CONTAMINATION BY PERFLUOROALKYL AND POLYFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES.
    (a) Cooperative Agreements.--
        (1) In general.--Upon request from the Governor or chief 
    executive of a State, the Secretary of Defense shall work 
    expeditiously, pursuant to section 2701(d) of title 10, United 
    States Code, to finalize a cooperative agreement, or amend an 
    existing cooperative agreement to address testing, monitoring, 
    removal, and remedial actions relating to the contamination or 
    suspected contamination of drinking, surface, or ground water from 
    PFAS originating from activities of the Department of Defense by 
    providing the mechanism and funding for the expedited review and 
    approval of documents of the Department related to PFAS 
    investigations and remedial actions from an active or 
    decommissioned military installation, including a facility of the 
    National Guard.
        (2) Minimum standards.--A cooperative agreement finalized or 
    amended under paragraph (1) shall meet or exceed the most stringent 
    of the following standards for PFAS in any environmental media:
            (A) An enforceable State standard, in effect in that State, 
        for drinking, surface, or ground water, as described in section 
        121(d)(2)(A)(ii) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
        Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 
        9621(d)(2)(A)(ii)).
            (B) An enforceable Federal standard for drinking, surface, 
        or ground water, as described in section 121(d)(2)(A)(i) of the 
        Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
        Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9621(d)(2)(A)(i)).
            (C) A health advisory under section 1412(b)(1)(F) of the 
        Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300g-1(b)(1)(F)).
        (3) Other authority.--In addition to the requirements for a 
    cooperative agreement under paragraph (1), when otherwise 
    authorized to expend funds for the purpose of addressing ground or 
    surface water contaminated by a perfluorinated compound, the 
    Secretary of Defense may, to expend those funds, enter into a grant 
    agreement, cooperative agreement, or contract with--
            (A) the local water authority with jurisdiction over the 
        contamination site, including--
                (i) a public water system (as defined in section 1401 
            of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f)); and
                (ii) a publicly owned treatment works (as defined in 
            section 212 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 
            U.S.C. 1292)); or
            (B) a State, local, or Tribal government.
    (b) Report.--Beginning on February 1, 2020, if a cooperative 
agreement is not finalized or amended under subsection (a) within one 
year after the request from the Governor or chief executive under that 
subsection, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to the appropriate committees and Members of Congress a report--
        (1) explaining why the agreement has not been finalized or 
    amended, as the case may be; and
        (2) setting forth a projected timeline for finalizing or 
    amending the agreement.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate committees and members of congress.--The term 
    ``appropriate committees and Members of Congress'' means--
            (A) the congressional defense committees;
            (B) the Senators who represent a State impacted by PFAS 
        contamination described in subsection (a)(1); and
            (C) the Members of the House of Representatives who 
        represent a district impacted by such contamination.
        (2) Fully fluorinated carbon atom.--The term ``fully 
    fluorinated carbon atom'' means a carbon atom on which all the 
    hydrogen substituents have been replaced by fluorine.
        (3) PFAS.--The term ``PFAS'' means perfluoroalkyl and 
    polyfluoroalkyl substances that are man-made chemicals with at 
    least one fully fluorinated carbon atom.
        (4) State.--The term ``State'' has the meaning given the term 
    in section 101 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
    Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601).
    SEC. 333. PLAN TO PHASE OUT USE OF BURN PITS.
    Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a plan to phase out the use of the burn pits identified in 
the Department of Defense Open Burn Pit Report to Congress dated April 
2019.
    SEC. 334. INFORMATION RELATING TO LOCATIONS OF BURN PIT USE.
    The Secretary of Defense shall provide to the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs and to Congress a list of all locations where open-air burn 
pits have been used by the Secretary of Defense, for the purposes of 
augmenting the research, healthcare delivery, disability compensation, 
and other activities of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
    SEC. 335. DATA QUALITY REVIEW OF RADIUM TESTING CONDUCTED AT 
      CERTAIN LOCATIONS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY.
    (a) Review of Radium Testing.--Except as provided in subsection 
(b), the Secretary of the Navy shall provide for an independent third-
party data quality review of all radium testing completed by 
contractors of the Department of the Navy at a covered location.
    (b) Exception.--In the case of a covered location for which an 
independent third-party data quality review of all radium testing 
completed by contractors of the Department has been conducted prior to 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the requirement under subsection 
(a) shall not apply if the Secretary of the Navy submits to the 
congressional defense committees a report containing--
        (1) a certification that such review has been conducted for 
    such covered location; and
        (2) a description of the results of such review.
    (c) Covered Location Defined.--In this section, the term ``covered 
location'' means any of the following:
        (1) Naval Weapons Industrial Reserve Plant, Bethpage, New York.
        (2) Hunter's Point Naval Shipyard, San Francisco, California.
    SEC. 336. REIMBURSEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY FOR 
      CERTAIN COSTS IN CONNECTION WITH THE TWIN CITIES ARMY AMMUNITION 
      PLANT, MINNESOTA.
    (a) Transfer Amount.--Notwithstanding section 2215 of title 10, 
United States Code, the Secretary of Defense may transfer to the 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency--
        (1) in fiscal year 2020, not more than $890,790; and
        (2) in each of fiscal years 2021 through 2026, not more than 
    $150,000.
    (b) Purpose of Reimbursement.--The amount authorized to be 
transferred under subsection (a) is to reimburse the Environmental 
Protection Agency for costs the Agency has incurred and will incur 
relating to the response actions performed at the Twin Cities Army 
Ammunition Plant, Minnesota, through September 30, 2025.
    (c) Interagency Agreement.--The reimbursement described in 
subsection (b) is intended to satisfy certain terms of the interagency 
agreement entered into by the Department of the Army and the 
Environmental Protection Agency for the Twin Cities Army Ammunition 
Plant that took effect in December 1987 and that provided for the 
recovery of expenses by the Agency from the Department of the Army.
    SEC. 337. PILOT PROGRAM FOR AVAILABILITY OF WORKING-CAPITAL FUNDS 
      FOR INCREASED COMBAT CAPABILITY THROUGH ENERGY OPTIMIZATION.
    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding section 2208 of title 10, United 
States Code, the Secretary of Defense and the military departments may 
use a working capital fund established pursuant to that section for 
expenses directly related to conducting a pilot program for energy 
optimization initiatives described in subsection (b).
    (b) Energy Optimization Initiatives.--Energy optimization 
initiatives covered by the pilot program include the research, 
development, procurement, installation, and sustainment of technologies 
or weapons system platforms, and the manpower required to do so, that 
would improve the efficiency and maintainability, extend the useful 
life, lower maintenance costs, or provide performance enhancement of 
the weapon system platform or major end item.
    (c) Limitation on Certain Projects.--Funds may not be used pursuant 
to subsection (a) for--
        (1) any product improvement that significantly changes the 
    performance envelope of an end item; or
        (2) any single component with an estimated total cost in excess 
    of $10,000,000.
    (d) Limitation in Fiscal Year Pending Timely Report.--If during any 
fiscal year the report required by paragraph (1) of subsection (e) is 
not submitted by the date specified in paragraph (2) of that 
subsection, funds may not be used pursuant to subsection (a) during the 
period--
        (1) beginning on the date specified in such paragraph (2); and
        (2) ending on the date of the submittal of the report.
    (e) Annual Report.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit an 
    annual report to the congressional defense committees on the use of 
    the authority under subsection (a) during the preceding fiscal 
    year.
        (2) Deadline for submittal.--The report required by paragraph 
    (1) in a fiscal year shall be submitted not later than 60 days 
    after the date of the submittal to Congress of the budget of the 
    President for the succeeding fiscal year pursuant to section 1105 
    of title 31, United States Code.
        (3) Recommendation.--In the case of the report required to be 
    submitted under paragraph (1) during fiscal year 2020, the report 
    shall include the recommendation of the Secretary of Defense and 
    the military departments regarding whether the authority under 
    subsection (a) should be made permanent.
    (f) Sunset.--The authority under subsection (a) shall expire on 
October 1, 2024.
    SEC. 338. REPORT ON EFFORTS TO REDUCE HIGH ENERGY INTENSITY AT 
      MILITARY INSTALLATIONS.
    (a) Report.--
        (1) Report required.--Not later than September 1, 2020, the 
    Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, in 
    conjunction with the assistant secretaries responsible for 
    installations and environment for the military departments and the 
    Defense Logistics Agency, shall submit to the congressional defense 
    committees a report detailing the efforts to achieve cost savings 
    at military installations with high energy intensity.
        (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following elements:
            (A) A comprehensive, installation-specific assessment of 
        feasible and mission-appropriate energy initiatives supporting 
        energy production and consumption at military installations 
        with high energy intensity.
            (B) An assessment of current sources of energy in areas 
        with high energy intensity and potential future sources that 
        are technologically feasible, cost-effective, and mission-
        appropriate for military installations.
            (C) A comprehensive implementation strategy to include 
        required investment for feasible energy efficiency options 
        determined to be the most beneficial and cost-effective, where 
        appropriate, and consistent with priorities of the Department 
        of Defense.
            (D) An explanation on how the military departments are 
        working collaboratively in order to leverage lessons learned on 
        potential energy efficiency solutions.
            (E) An assessment of the extent to which activities 
        administered under the Federal Energy Management Program of the 
        Department of Energy could be used to assist with the 
        implementation strategy under subparagraph (C).
            (F) An assessment of State and local partnership 
        opportunities that could achieve efficiency and cost savings, 
        and any legislative authorities required to carry out such 
        partnerships or agreements.
        (3) Coordination with state, local, and other entities.--In 
    preparing the report required under paragraph (1), the Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment may work in 
    conjunction and coordinate with the States containing areas of high 
    energy intensity, local communities, and other Federal agencies.
    (b) Definition.--In this section, the term ``high energy 
intensity'' means costs for the provision of energy by kilowatt of 
electricity or British Thermal Unit of heat or steam for a military 
installation in the United States that is in the highest 20 percent of 
all military installations for a military department.

Subtitle C--Treatment of Contaminated Water Near Military Installations

    SEC. 341. SHORT TITLE.
    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Prompt and Fast Action to Stop 
Damages Act of 2019''.
    SEC. 342. DEFINITIONS.
    In this subtitle:
        (1) PFOA.--The term ``PFOA'' means perfluorooctanoic acid.
        (2) PFOS.--The term ``PFOS'' means perfluorooctane sulfonate.
    SEC. 343. PROVISION OF WATER UNCONTAMINATED WITH PERFLUOROOCTANOIC 
      ACID (PFOA) AND PERFLUOROOCTANE SULFONATE (PFOS) FOR AGRICULTURAL 
      PURPOSES.
    (a) Authority.--
        (1) In general.--Using amounts authorized to be appropriated or 
    otherwise made available for operation and maintenance for the 
    military department concerned, or for operation and maintenance 
    Defense-wide in the case of the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary 
    concerned may provide water sources uncontaminated with 
    perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances, including PFOA and 
    PFOS, or treatment of contaminated waters, for agricultural 
    purposes used to produce products destined for human consumption in 
    an area in which a water source has been determined pursuant to 
    paragraph (2) to be contaminated with such compounds by reason of 
    activities on a military installation under the jurisdiction of the 
    Secretary concerned.
        (2) Applicable standard.--For purposes of paragraph (1), an 
    area is determined to be contaminated with PFOA or PFOS if--
            (A) the level of contamination is above the Lifetime Health 
        Advisory for contamination with such compounds issued by the 
        Environmental Protection Agency and printed in the Federal 
        Register on May 25, 2016; or
            (B) on or after the date the Food and Drug Administration 
        sets a standard for PFOA and PFOS in raw agricultural 
        commodities and milk, the level of contamination is above such 
        standard.
    (b) Secretary Concerned Defined.--In this section, the term 
``Secretary concerned'' means the following:
        (1) The Secretary of the Army, with respect to the Army.
        (2) The Secretary of the Navy, with respect to the Navy, the 
    Marine Corps, and the Coast Guard (when it is operating as a 
    service in the Navy).
        (3) The Secretary of the Air Force, with respect to the Air 
    Force.
        (4) The Secretary of Defense, with respect to the Defense 
    Agencies.
    SEC. 344. ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY BY AIR FORCE.
    (a) Authority.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Air Force may acquire one 
    or more parcels of real property within the vicinity of an Air 
    Force base that has shown signs of contamination from PFOA and PFOS 
    due to activities on the base and which would extend the contiguous 
    geographic footprint of the base and increase the force protection 
    standoff near critical infrastructure and runways.
        (2) Improvements and personal property.--The authority under 
    paragraph (1) to acquire real property described in that paragraph 
    shall include the authority to purchase improvements and personal 
    property located on that real property.
        (3) Relocation expenses.--The authority under paragraph (1) to 
    acquire real property described in that paragraph shall include the 
    authority to provide Federal financial assistance for moving costs, 
    relocation benefits, and other expenses incurred in accordance with 
    the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition 
    Policies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4601 et seq.).
    (b) Environmental Activities.--The Air Force shall conduct such 
activities at a parcel or parcels of real property acquired under 
subsection (a) as are necessary to remediate contamination from PFOA 
and PFOS related to activities at the Air Force base.
    (c) Funding.--Funds for the land acquisitions authorized under 
subsection (a) shall be derived from amounts authorized to be 
appropriated for fiscal year 2020 for military construction or the 
unobligated balances of appropriations for military construction that 
are enacted after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Rule of Construction.--The authority under this section 
constitutes authority to carry out land acquisitions for purposes of 
section 2802 of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 345. REMEDIATION PLAN.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
Congress a remediation plan for cleanup of all water at or adjacent to 
a military installation that is contaminated with PFOA or PFOS.
    (b) Study.--In preparing the remediation plan under subsection (a), 
the Secretary shall conduct a study on the contamination of water at 
military installations with PFOA or PFOS.
    (c) Budget Amount.--The Secretary shall ensure that each budget of 
the President submitted to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, 
United States Code, requests funding in amounts necessary to address 
remediation efforts under the remediation plan submitted under 
subsection (a).

                 Subtitle D--Logistics and Sustainment

    SEC. 351. MATERIEL READINESS METRICS AND OBJECTIVES.
    (a) Annual Report on Major Weapons Systems Sustainment.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 2 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by inserting after section 117 the following new section:
``Sec. 118. Annual report on major weapons systems sustainment
    ``Not later than five days after the date on which the Secretary of 
Defense submits to Congress the materials in support of the budget of 
the President for a fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
to the congressional defense committees an annual report on major 
weapons systems sustainment for the period covered by the future years 
defense program specified by section 221 of this title. Such report 
shall include--
        ``(1) an assessment of the materiel availability, materiel 
    reliability, and mean down time metrics for each major weapons 
    system;
        ``(2) a detailed explanation of any factors that could preclude 
    the Department of Defense or any of the military departments from 
    meeting applicable readiness goals or objectives; and
        ``(3) an assessment of the validity and effectiveness of the 
    definitions used to determine defense readiness, including the 
    terms `major weapons system', `covered asset', `total and required 
    inventory', `materiel and operational availability', `materiel and 
    operational capability', `materiel and operational reliability'.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
    section 117 the following new item:

``118. Annual report on major weapons systems sustainment.''.

    (b) Assessment of Materiel Readiness and Weapons System 
Sustainment.--
        (1) Assessment required.--Not later than March 1, 2020, the 
    Secretary of Defense shall complete a comprehensive assessment of 
    the materiel readiness and weapons systems sustainment of the 
    Department of Defense across the Department organic industrial base 
    and industry partners.
        (2) Contents.--The assessment required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include--
            (A) an assessment of the overall readiness strategy of the 
        Department of Defense and the capability of such strategy to 
        measure, track, and assess the readiness of major weapons 
        systems;
            (B) an assessment of the use of objectives and metrics;
            (C) a description of applicable reporting requirements; and
            (D) applicable definitions and common usage of relevant 
        terms, including the terms ``major weapons system'', ``covered 
        asset'', ``total and required inventory'', ``materiel and 
        operational availability'', ``materiel and operational 
        capability'', ``materiel and operational reliability'', and 
        ``maintenance costs''.
        (3) Submission to congress.--The Secretary shall provide to the 
    congressional defense committees--
            (A) a briefing on the assessment required by paragraph (1) 
        by not later than March 1, 2020; and
            (B) a final report on such assessment by not later than 
        April 1, 2020.
    SEC. 352. CLARIFICATION OF AUTHORITY REGARDING USE OF WORKING-
      CAPITAL FUNDS FOR UNSPECIFIED MINOR MILITARY CONSTRUCTION 
      PROJECTS RELATED TO REVITALIZATION AND RECAPITALIZATION OF 
      DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE FACILITIES.
    Section 2208(u) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``carry out'' and inserting 
    ``fund'';
        (2) in paragraph (2)--
            (A) by striking ``Section 2805'' and inserting ``(A) Except 
        as provided in subparagraph (B), section 2805'';
            (B) by striking ``carried out with'' and inserting ``funded 
        using''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(B) For purposes of applying subparagraph (A), the dollar 
limitation specified in subsection (a)(2) of section 2805 of this 
title, subject to adjustment as provided in subsection (f) of such 
section, shall apply rather than the dollar limitation specified in 
subsection (c) of such section.''; and
        (3) in paragraph (4), by striking ``carry out'' and inserting 
    ``fund''.
    SEC. 353. MODIFICATION TO LIMITATION ON LENGTH OF OVERSEAS FORWARD 
      DEPLOYMENT OF NAVAL VESSELS.
    Section 323 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
    subsection (c):
    ``(c) Extension of Limitation on Length of Overseas Forward 
Deployment for U.S.S. Shiloh (CG-67).--Notwithstanding subsection (b), 
the Secretary of the Navy shall ensure that the U.S.S. Shiloh (CG-67) 
is assigned a homeport in the United States by not later than September 
30, 2023.''.
    SEC. 354. EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY INSTALLATION REUTILIZATION 
      AUTHORITY FOR ARSENALS, DEPOTS, AND PLANTS.
    Section 345(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 10 U.S.C. 2667 note) is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2020'' and inserting ``September 30, 2025''.
    SEC. 355. F-35 JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER SUSTAINMENT.
    (a) Limitation on Use of Funds.--Of the amounts authorized to be 
appropriated or otherwise made available in this Act for the Office of 
the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment for 
fiscal year 2020, not more than 75 percent may be obligated or expended 
until the date on which the Under Secretary submits the report required 
by subsection (b).
    (b) Report Required.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on steps 
being taken to improve the availability and accountability of F-35 
parts within the supply chain. At a minimum, the report shall include a 
detailed plan for each of the following elements:
        (1) How the accountable property system of record will be 
    updated with information from the prime contractors supplying such 
    parts on required cost and related data with respect to the parts 
    and how the F-35 Program Office will ensure such contractors are 
    adhering to contractual requirements for the management, reporting, 
    visibility, and accountability of all such parts supplied by the 
    prime contractors.
        (2) How the accountability property system of record will have 
    interfaces that allow the F-35 Program Office and other authorized 
    entities to have proper accountability of assets in accordance with 
    applicable Department of Defense Instructions, Department of 
    Defense Manuals, and other applicable regulations.
        (3) How the F-35 Program Office, in coordination with the 
    military departments, will ensure business rules for the 
    prioritization of F-35 parts across all program participants are 
    sufficient, effective, and responsive.
        (4) Steps being taken to ensure parts within the base, afloat, 
    and deployment spares packages are compatible for deploying F-35 
    aircraft and account for updated parts demand.
    SEC. 356. REPORT ON STRATEGIC POLICY FOR PREPOSITIONED MATERIEL AND 
      EQUIPMENT.
    Not later than March 1, 2020, the Assistant Secretary of Defense 
for Sustainment, in coordination with the Joint Staff, shall submit to 
the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of 
Representatives a report on the implementation plan for prepositioned 
materiel and equipment required by section 321(b) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 
Stat. 730; 10 U.S.C. 2229 note). Such report shall include each of the 
following:
        (1) A comprehensive list of the prepositioned materiel and 
    equipment programs of the Department of Defense.
        (2) A detailed description of how the plan will be implemented.
        (3) A description of the resources required to implement the 
    plan, including the amount of funds and personnel.
        (4) A description of how the plan will be reviewed and assessed 
    to monitor progress.
        (5) Guidance on applying a consistent definition of 
    prepositioning across the Department, including the military 
    departments, the combatant commands, and the Defense Agencies.
        (6) A detailed description of how the Secretary will implement 
    a joint oversight approach of the prepositioning programs of the 
    military departments.
    SEC. 357. PILOT PROGRAM TO TRAIN SKILLED TECHNICIANS IN CRITICAL 
      SHIPBUILDING SKILLS.
    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of the Navy may carry out a pilot 
program to train individuals to become skilled technicians in critical 
shipbuilding skills such as welding, metrology, quality assurance, 
machining, and additive manufacturing.
    (b) Partnerships.--In carrying out the pilot program under this 
section, the Secretary may partner with existing Federal or State 
projects relating to investment and infrastructure in training and 
education or workforce development, such as the National Network for 
Manufacturing Innovation, the Industrial Base Analysis and Sustainment 
program of the Department of Defense, and the National Maritime 
Educational Council.
    (c) Termination.--The authority to carry out a pilot program under 
this section shall terminate on September 30, 2025.
    (d) Briefings.--If the Secretary carries out a pilot program under 
this section, the Secretary shall provide briefings to the Committees 
on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives as 
follows:
        (1) Not later than 30 days before beginning to implement the 
    pilot program, the Secretary shall provide a briefing on the plan, 
    cost estimate, and schedule for the pilot program.
        (2) Not less frequently than annually during the period when 
    the pilot program is carried out, the Secretary shall provide 
    briefings on the progress of the Secretary in carrying out the 
    pilot program.
    SEC. 358. REQUIREMENT FOR MILITARY DEPARTMENT INTER-SERVICE DEPOT 
      MAINTENANCE.
    (a) Joint Process for Technical Compliance and Quality Control.--If 
the Secretary of a military department transfers any maintenance action 
on a platform to a depot under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of 
another military department, the two Secretaries shall develop and 
implement a process to ensure the technical compliance and quality 
control for the work performed.
    (b) Requirements.--A process developed under subsection (a) shall 
include the following requirements--
        (1) The Secretary of the military department with jurisdiction 
    over the depot to which the maintenance action is transferred 
    shall--
            (A) ensure that the technical specifications, requirements, 
        and standards for work to be performed are provided to such 
        action or depot; and
            (B) implement procedures to ensure that completed work 
        complies with such specifications, requirements and standards.
        (2) The Secretary who transfers the maintenance activity or 
    depot shall ensure that--
            (A) the technical specifications and requirements are 
        clearly understood; and
            (B) the work performed is completed to the technical 
        specifications, requirements, and standards prescribed under 
        paragraph (1), and that the Secretary of the military 
        department with jurisdiction over the depot is informed of any 
        shortcoming or discrepancy.
    (c) Reports.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition 
and Sustainment shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report containing a certification that sufficient policy and procedures 
are in place to ensure quality control when the depot or maintenance 
activities of one military department support another. The report shall 
include a description of known shortfalls in existing policies and 
procedures and actions the Department of Defense is taking to address 
such shortfalls.
    SEC. 359. STRATEGY TO IMPROVE INFRASTRUCTURE OF CERTAIN DEPOTS OF 
      THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Strategy Required.--Not later than October 1, 2020, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a comprehensive strategy for improving the depot 
infrastructure of the military departments with the objective of 
ensuring that all covered depots have the capacity and capability to 
support the readiness and material availability goals of current and 
future weapon systems of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Elements.--The strategy under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
        (1) A comprehensive review of the conditions and performance at 
    each covered depot, including the following:
            (A) An assessment of the current status of the following 
        elements:
                (i) Cost and schedule performance of the depot.
                (ii) Material availability of weapon systems supported 
            at the depot and the impact of the performance of the depot 
            on that availability.
                (iii) Work in progress and non-operational items 
            awaiting depot maintenance.
                (iv) The condition of the depot.
                (v) The backlog of restoration and modernization 
            projects at the depot.
                (vi) The condition of equipment at the depot.
                (vii) the vulnerability of the depot to adverse 
            environmental conditions and, if necessary, the investment 
            required to withstand those conditions.
            (B) An identification of analytically based goals relating 
        to the elements identified in subparagraph (A).
        (2) A business-case analysis that assesses investment 
    alternatives comparing cost, performance, risk, and readiness 
    outcomes and recommends an optimal investment approach across the 
    Department of Defense to ensure covered depots efficiently and 
    effectively meet the readiness goals of the Department, including 
    an assessment of the following alternatives:
            (A) The minimum investment necessary to meet investment 
        requirements under section 2476 of title 10, United States 
        Code.
            (B) The investment necessary to ensure the current 
        inventory of facilities at covered depots can meet the mission-
        capable, readiness, and contingency goals of the Secretary of 
        Defense.
            (C) The investment necessary to execute the depot 
        infrastructure optimization plans of each military department.
            (D) Any other strategies for investment in covered depots, 
        as identified by the Secretary.
        (3) A plan to improve conditions and performance of covered 
    depots that identifies the following:
            (A) The approach of the Secretary of Defense for achieving 
        the goals outlined in paragraph (1)(B).
            (B) The resources and investments required to implement the 
        plan.
            (C) The activities and milestones required to implement the 
        plan.
            (D) A results-oriented approach to assess--
                (i) the progress of each military department in 
            achieving such goals; and
                (ii) the progress of the Department in implementing the 
            plan.
            (E) Organizational roles and responsibilities for 
        implementing the plan.
            (F) A process for conducting regular management review and 
        coordination of the progress of each military department in 
        implementing the plan and achieving such goals.
            (G) The extent to which the Secretary has addressed 
        recommendations made by the Comptroller General of the United 
        States relating to depot operations during the five-year period 
        preceding the date of submittal of the strategy under this 
        section.
            (H) Risks to implementing the plan and mitigation 
        strategies to address those risks.
    (c) Annual Report on Progress.--As part of the annual budget 
submission of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
States Code, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report describing the progress made in--
        (1) implementing the strategy under subsection (a); and
        (2) achieving the goals outlined in subsection (b)(1)(B).
    (d) Comptroller General Reports.--
        (1) Assessment of strategy.--Not later than January 1, 2021, 
    the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report assessing the extent to 
    which the strategy under subsection (a) meets the requirements of 
    this section.
        (2) Assessment of implementation.--Not later than April 1, 
    2022, the Comptroller General shall submit to the congressional 
    defense committees a report setting forth an assessment of the 
    extent to which the strategy under subsection (a) has been 
    effectively implemented by each military department and the 
    Secretary of Defense.
    (e) Covered Depot Defined.--In this section, the term ``covered 
depot'' has the meaning given that term in section 2476(e) of title 10, 
United States Code.

                          Subtitle E--Reports

    SEC. 361. READINESS REPORTING.
    (a) Readiness Reporting System.--Section 117 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking subsections (d) through (g); and
        (2) by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (d).
    (b) Quarterly Reports.--Section 482 of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
        (1) in the section heading, by striking ``Quarterly reports: 
    personnel and unit readiness'' and inserting ``Readiness reports'';
        (2) in subsection (a)--
            (A) In the subsection heading, by striking ``Quarterly 
        Reports Required'' and inserting ``Reports and Briefings'';
            (B) In the first sentence--
                (i) by striking ``Not later'' and inserting ``(1) Not 
            later''; and
                (ii) by striking ``each calendar-year quarter'' and 
            inserting ``the second and fourth quarter of each calendar 
            year'';
            (C) by striking the second and third sentences and 
        inserting ``The Secretary of Defense shall submit each such 
        report in writing and shall also submit a copy of each such 
        report to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.''; and
            (D) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
    ``(2) Not later than 30 days after the end of the first and third 
quarter of each calendar year, the Secretary of Defense shall provide 
to Congress a briefing regarding the military readiness of the active 
and reserve components.
    ``(3) Each report under this subsection shall contain the elements 
required by subsection (b) for the quarter covered by the report, and 
each briefing shall address any changes to the elements described in 
subsection (b) since the submittal of the most recently submitted 
report.'';
        (3) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Required Elements.--The elements described in this subsection 
are each of the following:
        ``(1) A description of each readiness problem or deficiency 
    that affects the ground, sea, air, space, cyber, or special 
    operations forces, and any other area determined appropriate by the 
    Secretary of Defense.
        ``(2) The key contributing factors, indicators, and other 
    relevant information related to each identified problem or 
    deficiency.
        ``(3) The short-term mitigation strategy the Department will 
    employ to address each readiness problem or deficiency until a 
    resolution is in place, as well as the timeline, cost, and any 
    legislative remedies required to support the resolution.
        ``(4) A summary of combat readiness ratings for the key force 
    elements assessed, including specific information on personnel, 
    supply, equipment, and training problems or deficiencies that 
    affect the combat readiness ratings for each force element.
        ``(5) A summary of each upgrade or downgrade of the combat 
    readiness of a unit that was issued by the commander of the unit, 
    together with the rationale of the commander for the issuance of 
    such upgrade or downgrade.
        ``(6) A summary of the readiness of supporting capabilities, 
    including infrastructure, prepositioned equipment and supplies, and 
    mobility assets, and other supporting logistics capabilities.
        ``(7) A summary of the readiness of the combat support and 
    related agencies, any readiness problem or deficiency affecting any 
    mission essential tasks of any such agency, and actions recommended 
    to address any such problem or deficiency.
        ``(8) A list of all Class A, Class B, and Class C mishaps that 
    occurred in operations related to combat support and training 
    events involving aviation, ground, or naval platforms, weapons, 
    space, or Government vehicles, as defined by Department of Defense 
    Instruction 6055.07, or a successor instruction.
        ``(9) Information on the extent to which units of the armed 
    forces have removed serviceable parts, supplies, or equipment from 
    one vehicle, vessel, or aircraft in order to render a different 
    vehicle, vessel, or aircraft operational.
        ``(10) Such other information as determined necessary or 
    appropriate by the Secretary of Defense.'';
        (4) by striking subsections (d) through (h) and subsection (j);
        (5) by redesignating subsection (i) as subsection (e); and
        (6) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
    subsections (d):
    ``(d) Semi-Annual Joint Force Readiness Review.--(1) Not later than 
30 days after the last day of the first and third quarter of each 
calendar year, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall submit 
to Congress a written report on the capability of the armed forces, the 
combat support and related agencies, operational contract support, and 
the geographic and functional combatant commands to execute their 
wartime missions based upon their posture and readiness as of the time 
the review is conducted.
    ``(2) The Chairman shall produce the report required under this 
subsection using information derived from the quarterly reports 
required by subsection (a).
    ``(3) Each report required by this subsection shall include an 
assessment by each commander of a geographic or functional combatant 
command of the readiness of the command to conduct operations in a 
multidomain battle that integrates ground, sea, air, space, cyber, and 
special operations forces.
    ``(4) The Chairman shall submit to the Secretary of Defense a copy 
of each report under this subsection.''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 23 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 482 and inserting the following new item:

``482. Readiness reports.''.
    SEC. 362. TECHNICAL CORRECTION TO DEADLINE FOR TRANSITION TO 
      DEFENSE READINESS REPORTING SYSTEM STRATEGIC.
    Section 358(c) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is amended by striking 
``October 1, 2019'' and inserting ``October 1, 2020''.
    SEC. 363. REPORT ON NAVY SHIP DEPOT MAINTENANCE BUDGET.
    (a) In General.--Not later than March 1 of each of 2020, 2021, and 
2022, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on the 
Operation and Maintenance, Ship Depot Maintenance budget sub-activity 
group.
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include each of the following elements:
        (1) A breakdown of funding, categorized by class of ship, 
    requested for ship and submarine maintenance.
        (2) A description of how the requested funding, categorized by 
    class of ship, compares to the identified ship maintenance 
    requirement.
        (3) The amount of funds appropriated for each class of ship for 
    the preceding fiscal year.
        (4) The amount of funds obligated and expended for each class 
    of ship for each of the three preceding fiscal years.
        (5) The cost, categorized by class of ship, of unplanned growth 
    work for each of the three preceding fiscal years.
    SEC. 364. REPORT ON RUNIT DOME.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives 
a report on the status of the Runit Dome in the Marshal Islands.
    (b) Matters for Inclusion.--The report required by subsection (a) 
shall include each of the following:
        (1) A detailed plan to repair the dome to ensure that it does 
    not have any harmful effects to the local population, environment, 
    or wildlife, including the projected costs of implementing such 
    plan.
        (2) The effects on the environment that the dome has currently 
    and is projected to have in 5 years, 10 years, and 20 years.
        (3) An assessment of the current condition of the outer 
    constructs of the dome.
        (4) An assessment of the current and long-term safety to local 
    humans posed by the site.
        (5) An assessment of how rising sea levels might affect the 
    dome.
        (6) A summary of interactions between the Government of the 
    United States and the government of the Marshall Islands about the 
    dome.
    (c) Form of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form and made publicly available.
    SEC. 365. PROHIBITION ON SUBJECTIVE UPGRADES BY COMMANDERS OF UNIT 
      RATINGS IN MONTHLY READINESS REPORTING ON MILITARY UNITS.
    (a) In General.--The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall 
modify Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 
3401.02B, on Force Readiness Reporting, to prohibit the commander of a 
military unit who is responsible for monthly reporting of the readiness 
of the unit under the instruction from making any upgrade of the 
overall rating of the unit (commonly referred to as the ``C-rating'') 
for such reporting purposes based in whole or in part on subjective 
factors.
    (b) Waiver.--
        (1) In general.--The modification required by subsection (a) 
    shall authorize an officer in a general or flag officer grade in 
    the chain of command of a commander described in that subsection to 
    waive the prohibition described in that subsection in connection 
    with readiness reporting on the unit concerned if the officer 
    considers the waiver appropriate in the circumstances.
        (2) Reporting on waivers.--Each report on personnel and unit 
    readiness submitted to Congress for a calendar year quarter 
    pursuant to section 482 of title 10, United States Code, shall 
    include information on each waiver, if any, issued pursuant to 
    paragraph (1) during such calendar year quarter.
    SEC. 366. REQUIREMENT TO INCLUDE FOREIGN LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY IN 
      READINESS REPORTING SYSTEMS OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of each military department 
shall include in the Global Readiness and Force Management Enterprise, 
for the appropriate billets with relevant foreign language 
requirements, measures of foreign language proficiency as a mandatory 
element of unit readiness reporting, to include the Defense Readiness 
Reporting Systems-Strategic (DRRS-S) and all other subordinate systems 
that report readiness data.

                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

    SEC. 371. PREVENTION OF ENCROACHMENT ON MILITARY TRAINING ROUTES 
      AND MILITARY OPERATIONS AREAS.
    Section 183a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (c)(6), in the second sentence--
            (A) by striking ``radar or airport surveillance radar 
        operated'' and inserting ``radar, airport surveillance radar, 
        or wide area surveillance over-the-horizon radar operated''; 
        and
            (B) by inserting ``Any setback for a project pursuant to 
        the previous sentence shall not be more than what is determined 
        to be necessary by a technical analysis conducted by the 
        Lincoln Laboratory at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
        or any successor entity.'' after ``mitigation options.'';
        (2) in subsection (d)--
            (A) in paragraph (2)(E), by striking ``to a Deputy 
        Secretary of Defense, an Under Secretary of Defense, or a 
        Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense'' and inserting 
        ``to the Deputy Secretary of Defense, an Under Secretary of 
        Defense, or a Deputy Under Secretary of Defense'';
            (B) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
            (C) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
        paragraph (3):
    ``(3) The governor of a State may recommend to the Secretary of 
Defense additional geographical areas of concern within that State. Any 
such recommendation shall be submitted for notice and comment pursuant 
to paragraph (2)(C).'';
        (3) in subsection (e)(3), by striking ``an under secretary of 
    defense, or a deputy under secretary of defense'' and inserting 
    ``an Under Secretary of Defense, or a Deputy Under Secretary of 
    Defense'';
        (4) in subsection (f), in the first sentence, by striking 
    ``from an applicant for a project filed with the Secretary of 
    Transportation pursuant to section 44718 of title 49'' and 
    inserting ``from an entity requesting a review by the Clearinghouse 
    under this section''; and
        (5) in subsection (h)--
            (A) by redesignating paragraphs (3), (4), (5), (6), and (7) 
        as paragraphs (4), (5), (6), (7), and (9), respectively;
            (B) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
        paragraph (3):
        ``(3) The term `governor', with respect to a State, means the 
    chief executive officer of the State.'';
            (C) in paragraph (7), as redesignated by subparagraph (A), 
        by striking ``by the Federal Aviation Administration'' and 
        inserting ``by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
        Administration''; and
            (D) by inserting after paragraph (7), as redesignated by 
        subparagraph (A), the following new paragraph:
        ``(8) The term `State' means the several States, the District 
    of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of 
    the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, the United States Virgin 
    Islands, and American Samoa.''.
    SEC. 372. EXPANSION AND ENHANCEMENT OF AUTHORITIES ON TRANSFER AND 
      ADOPTION OF MILITARY ANIMALS.
    (a) Transfer and Adoption Generally.--Section 2583 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``Transfer or'' 
        before ``Adoption''; and
            (B) by striking ``adoption'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``transfer or adoption'';
        (2) in subsection (b)--
            (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``Transfer or'' 
        before ``Adoption''; and
            (B) in the first sentence, by striking ``adoption'' and 
        inserting ``transfer or adoption''; and
            (C) in the second sentence, striking ``adoptability'' and 
        inserting ``transferability or adoptability'';
        (3) in subsection (c)(1)--
            (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A)--
                (i) by inserting ``transfer or'' before ``adoption''; 
            and
                (ii) by inserting ``, by'' after ``recommended 
            priority'';
            (B) in subparagraphs (A) and (B), by inserting ``adoption'' 
        before ``by'';
            (C) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``or organizations'' 
        after ``persons''; and
            (D) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``by'' and inserting 
        ``transfer to''; and
        (4) in subsection (e)--
            (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``or 
        Adopted''after ``Transferred'';
            (B) in paragraphs (1) and (2), by striking ``transferred'' 
        each place it appears and inserting ``transferred or adopted''; 
        and
            (C) in paragraph (2), by striking ``transfer'' each place 
        it appears and inserting ``transfer or adoption''.
    (b) Veterinary Screening and Care for Military Working Dogs to Be 
Retired.--Such section is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (f), (g), and (h) as 
    subsections (g), (h), and (i), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
    subsection (f):
    ``(f) Veterinary Screening and Care for Military Working Dogs To Be 
Retired.--(1)(A) If the Secretary of the military department concerned 
determines that a military working dog should be retired, such 
Secretary shall transport the dog to the Veterinary Treatment Facility 
at Lackland Air Force Base, Texas.
    ``(B) In the case of a contract working dog to be retired, 
transportation required by subparagraph (A) is satisfied by the 
transfer of the dog to the 341st Training Squadron at the end of the 
dog's service life as required by section 2410r of this title and 
assignment of the dog to the Veterinary Treatment Facility referred to 
in that subparagraph.
    ``(2)(A) The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that each dog 
transported as described in paragraph (1) to the Veterinary Treatment 
Facility referred to in that paragraph is provided with a full 
veterinary screening, and necessary veterinary care (including surgery 
for any mental, dental, or stress-related illness), before 
transportation of the dog in accordance with subsection (g).
    ``(B) For purposes of this paragraph, stress-related illness 
includes illness in connection with post-traumatic stress, anxiety that 
manifests in a physical ailment, obsessive compulsive behavior, and any 
other stress-related ailment.
    ``(3) Transportation is not required under paragraph (1), and 
screening and care is not required under paragraph (2), for a military 
working dog located outside the United States if the Secretary of the 
military department concerned determines that transportation of the dog 
to the United States would not be in the best interests of the dog for 
medical reasons.''.
    (c) Coordination of Screening and Care Requirements With 
Transportation Requirements.--Subsection (g) of such section, as 
redesignated by subsection (b)(1) of this section, is amended to read 
as follows:
    ``(g) Transportation of Retiring Military Working Dogs.--Upon 
completion of veterinary screening and care for a military working dog 
to be retired pursuant to subsection (f), the Secretary of the military 
department concerned shall--
        ``(1) if the dog was at a location outside the United States 
    immediately prior to transportation for such screening and care and 
    a United States citizen or member of the armed forces living abroad 
    agrees to adopt the dog, transport the dog to such location for 
    adoption; or
        ``(2) for any other dog, transport the dog--
            ``(A) to the 341st Training Squadron;
            ``(B) to another location within the United States for 
        transfer or adoption under this section.''.
    (d) Preservation of Policy on Transfer of Military Working Dogs to 
Law Enforcement Agencies.--Subsection (h) of such section, as so 
redesignated, is amended in paragraph (3) by striking ``adoption of 
military working dogs'' and all that follows through the period at the 
end and inserting ``transfer of military working dogs to law 
enforcement agencies before the end of the dogs' useful working 
lives.''.
    (e) Clarification of Horses Treatable as Military Animals.--
Subsection (i) of such section, as so redesignated, is amended by 
striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following new paragraph (2):
        ``(2) An equid (horse, mule, or donkey) owned by the Department 
    of Defense.''.
    (f) Contract Term for Contract Working Dogs.--Section 2410r(a) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``, and shall contain a contract term,'' after 
    ``shall require'';
        (2) by inserting ``and assigned for veterinary screening and 
    care in accordance with section 2583 of this title'' after ``341st 
    Training Squadron''; and
        (3) by striking ``section 2583 of this title'' and inserting 
    ``such section''.
    SEC. 373. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR SECRETARY OF DEFENSE TO USE 
      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE REIMBURSEMENT RATE FOR TRANSPORTATION 
      SERVICES PROVIDED TO CERTAIN NON-DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ENTITIES.
    Section 2642(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``October 1, 2019'' and inserting ``October 1, 2024''.
    SEC. 374. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION TO 
      ISSUE NON-PREMIUM AVIATION INSURANCE.
    Section 44310(b) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2019'' and inserting ``September 30, 2023''.
    SEC. 375. DEFENSE PERSONAL PROPERTY PROGRAM.
    (a) Report on Personal Property Program Improvement Action Plan.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition and Sustainment and the Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Personnel and Readiness shall jointly submit to the congressional 
    defense committees a report on implementation of the Personal 
    Property Program Improvement Action Plan that was developed by the 
    Personnel Relocation/Household Goods Movement Cross-Functional 
    Team.
        (2) Contents of report.--The report required under paragraph 
    (1) shall include updated information on the efforts of the 
    Department of Defense to--
            (A) integrate permanent-change-of-station orders with 
        transportation systems;
            (B) reduce the number of report dates during peak moving 
        season;
            (C) synchronize the communication of information about 
        orders to all parties involved, including industry;
            (D) improve lead time for permanent-change-of-station 
        orders;
            (E) meet quality assurance inspection standards;
            (F) improve the claims review process; and
            (G) incorporate predictive analytics to anticipate 
        potentially problematic shipments.
        (3) Briefing.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition and Sustainment and the Assistant Secretary of Defense 
    for Personnel and Readiness shall jointly provide to the 
    congressional defense committees a briefing on the report required 
    under this subsection.
    (b) Business Case Analysis.--Not later than 30 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Commander of United States 
Transportation Command shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a business case analysis for the proposed award of a global 
household goods contract for the defense personal property program.
    (c) GAO Report.--Not later than 30 days after the date on which the 
Commander of United States Transportation Command submits the business 
case analysis required by subsection (b), the Comptroller General of 
the United States shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
a report on a comprehensive study conducted by the Comptroller General 
that includes--
        (1) an analysis of the effects that the outsourcing of the 
    management and oversight of the movement of household goods to a 
    private entity or entities would have on members of the Armed 
    Forces and their families;
        (2) a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis; and
        (3) recommendations for changes to the strategy of the 
    Department of Defense for the defense personal property program.
    (d) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act or otherwise made available for the Department of Defense for 
fiscal year 2020 may be used to enter into a global household goods 
contract until April 1, 2020.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``global household goods contract'' means the 
    solicitation managed by United States Transportation Command to 
    engage a private entity to manage the defense personal property 
    program.
        (2) The term ``defense personal property program'' means the 
    Department of Defense program used to manage the shipment of the 
    baggage and household effects of members of the Armed Forces under 
    section 476 of title 37, United States Code.
    SEC. 376. PUBLIC EVENTS ABOUT RED HILL BULK FUEL STORAGE FACILITY.
    (a) Requirement.--At least once every calendar quarter, the 
Secretary of the Navy, or the designee of the Secretary, shall hold an 
event that is open to the public at which the Secretary shall provide 
up-to-date information about the Red Hill Bulk Fuel Storage Facility.
    (b) Termination.--The requirement to hold events under subsection 
(a) shall terminate on the earlier of the following dates:
        (1) September 30, 2025.
        (2) The date on which the Red Hill Bulk Fuel Storage Facility 
    ceases operation.
    SEC. 377. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING INNOVATIVE READINESS TRAINING 
      PROGRAM.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the Innovative Readiness Training program is an effective 
    training program for members of the Armed Forces and is highly 
    beneficial to civilian-military relationships with local American 
    communities;
        (2) due to the geographic complexities and realities of non-
    contiguous States and territories, Innovative Readiness Training 
    has lent greater benefit to such States and territories while 
    providing unique and realistic training opportunities and 
    deployment readiness for members of the Armed Forces;
        (3) the Department of Defense should pursue continued 
    Innovative Readiness Training opportunities, and, where applicable, 
    strongly encourage the use of Innovative Readiness Training in non-
    contiguous States and territories; and
        (4) in considering whether to recommend a project, the 
    Secretary should consider the benefits of the project to the 
    economy of a region damaged by natural disasters.
    SEC. 378. DETONATION CHAMBERS FOR EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Navy shall purchase and 
operate a portable closed detonation chamber and water jet cutting 
system to be deployed at a former naval bombardment area located 
outside the continental United States that is part of an active 
remediation program using amounts made available for environmental 
restoration, Navy. Upon a determination by the Secretary of the Navy 
that the chamber has completed the mission of destroying appropriately 
sized munitions at such former naval bombardment area, the Secretary 
may deploy the chamber to another location.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for fiscal year 2020 $10,000,000 to carry out subsection 
(a).

              TITLE IV--MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS

                        Subtitle A--Active Forces

Sec. 401. End strengths for active forces.
Sec. 402. Revisions in permanent active duty end strength minimum 
          levels.

                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

Sec. 411. End strengths for Selected Reserve.
Sec. 412. End strengths for Reserves on active duty in support of the 
          reserves.
Sec. 413. End strengths for military technicians (dual status).
Sec. 414. Maximum number of reserve personnel authorized to be on active 
          duty for operational support.
Sec. 415. Authorized strengths for Marine Corps Reserves on active duty.
Sec. 416. Modification of authorized strength of Air Force Reserve 
          serving on full-time reserve component duty for administration 
          of the reserves or the National Guard.

               Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 421. Military personnel.

                       Subtitle A--Active Forces

    SEC. 401. END STRENGTHS FOR ACTIVE FORCES.
    The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for active duty personnel 
as of September 30, 2020, as follows:
        (1) The Army, 480,000.
        (2) The Navy, 340,500.
        (3) The Marine Corps, 186,200.
        (4) The Air Force, 332,800.
    SEC. 402. REVISIONS IN PERMANENT ACTIVE DUTY END STRENGTH MINIMUM 
      LEVELS.
    Section 691(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking paragraphs (1) through (4) and inserting the following new 
paragraphs:
        ``(1) For the Army, 480,000.
        ``(2) For the Navy, 340,500.
        ``(3) For the Marine Corps, 186,200.
        ``(4) For the Air Force, 332,800.''.

                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

    SEC. 411. END STRENGTHS FOR SELECTED RESERVE.
    (a) In General.--The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for 
Selected Reserve personnel of the reserve components as of September 
30, 2020, as follows:
        (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 336,000.
        (2) The Army Reserve, 189,500.
        (3) The Navy Reserve, 59,000.
        (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 38,500.
        (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 107,700.
        (6) The Air Force Reserve, 70,100.
        (7) The Coast Guard Reserve, 7,000.
    (b) End Strength Reductions.--The end strengths prescribed by 
subsection (a) for the Selected Reserve of any reserve component shall 
be proportionately reduced by--
        (1) the total authorized strength of units organized to serve 
    as units of the Selected Reserve of such component which are on 
    active duty (other than for training) at the end of the fiscal 
    year; and
        (2) the total number of individual members not in units 
    organized to serve as units of the Selected Reserve of such 
    component who are on active duty (other than for training or for 
    unsatisfactory participation in training) without their consent at 
    the end of the fiscal year.
    (c) End Strength Increases.--Whenever units or individual members 
of the Selected Reserve of any reserve component are released from 
active duty during any fiscal year, the end strength prescribed for 
such fiscal year for the Selected Reserve of such reserve component 
shall be increased proportionately by the total authorized strengths of 
such units and by the total number of such individual members.
    SEC. 412. END STRENGTHS FOR RESERVES ON ACTIVE DUTY IN SUPPORT OF 
      THE RESERVES.
    Within the end strengths prescribed in section 411(a), the reserve 
components of the Armed Forces are authorized, as of September 30, 
2020, the following number of Reserves to be serving on full-time 
active duty or full-time duty, in the case of members of the National 
Guard, for the purpose of organizing, administering, recruiting, 
instructing, or training the reserve components:
        (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 30,595.
        (2) The Army Reserve, 16,511.
        (3) The Navy Reserve, 10,155.
        (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 2,386.
        (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 22,637.
        (6) The Air Force Reserve, 4,431.
    SEC. 413. END STRENGTHS FOR MILITARY TECHNICIANS (DUAL STATUS).
    (a) In General.--The minimum number of military technicians (dual 
status) as of the last day of fiscal year 2020 for the reserve 
components of the Army and the Air Force (notwithstanding section 129 
of title 10, United States Code) shall be the following:
        (1) For the Army National Guard of the United States, 22,294.
        (2) For the Army Reserve, 6,492.
        (3) For the Air National Guard of the United States, 13,569.
        (4) For the Air Force Reserve, 8,938.
    (b) Limitation.--Under no circumstances may a military technician 
(dual status) employed under the authority of this section be coerced 
by a State into accepting an offer of realignment or conversion to any 
other military status, including as a member of the Active, Guard, and 
Reserve program of a reserve component. If a military technician (dual 
status) declines to participate in such realignment or conversion, no 
further action will be taken against the individual or the individual's 
position.
    (c) Adjustment of Authorized Strength.--
        (1) In general.--If, at the end of fiscal year 2019, the Air 
    National Guard of the United States does not meet its full-time 
    support realignment goals for such fiscal year (as presented in the 
    justification materials of the Department of Defense in support of 
    the budget of the President for such fiscal year under section 1105 
    of title 31, United States Code), the authorized number of military 
    technicians (dual status) of the Air National Guard of the United 
    States under subsection (a)(3) shall be increased by the number 
    equal to the difference between--
            (A) 3,190, which is the number of military technicians 
        (dual status) positions in the Air National Guard of the United 
        States sought to be converted to the Active, Guard, and Reserve 
        program of the Air National Guard during fiscal year 2019; and
            (B) the number of realigned positions achieved in the Air 
        National Guard by the end of fiscal year 2019.
        (2) Limitation.--The increase under paragraph (1) in the 
    authorized number of military technician (dual status) positions 
    described in that paragraph may not exceed 2,292.
        (3) Decrease in authorized number of angus reserves on active 
    duty in support of the reserves.--In the event of an adjustment to 
    the authorized number military technicians (dual status) of the Air 
    National Guard of the United States under this subsection, the 
    number of members of the Air National Guard of the United States 
    authorized by section 412(5) to be on active duty as of September 
    30, 2020, shall be decreased by the number equal to the number of 
    such adjustment.
    (d) Certification.--Not later than January 1, 2020, the Chief of 
the National Guard Bureau shall certify to the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and House of Representatives the number of 
positions realigned from a military technician (dual status) position 
to a position in the Active, Guard, and Reserve program of a reserve 
component in fiscal year 2019.
    (e) Definitions.--In subsections (b), (c), and (d):
        (1) The term ``realigned position'' means any military 
    technician (dual status) position which has been converted or 
    realigned to a position in an Active, Guard, and Reserve program of 
    a reserve component under the full time support rebalancing plan of 
    the Armed Force concerned, regardless of whether such position is 
    encumbered.
        (2) The term ``Active, Guard, and Reserve program'', in the 
    case of a reserve component, means the program of the reserve 
    component under which Reserves serve on full-time active duty or 
    full-time duty, in the case of members of the National Guard, for 
    the purpose of organizing, administering, recruiting, instructing, 
    or training such reserve component.
    SEC. 414. MAXIMUM NUMBER OF RESERVE PERSONNEL AUTHORIZED TO BE ON 
      ACTIVE DUTY FOR OPERATIONAL SUPPORT.
    During fiscal year 2020, the maximum number of members of the 
reserve components of the Armed Forces who may be serving at any time 
on full-time operational support duty under section 115(b) of title 10, 
United States Code, is the following:
        (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 17,000.
        (2) The Army Reserve, 13,000.
        (3) The Navy Reserve, 6,200.
        (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 3,000.
        (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 16,000.
        (6) The Air Force Reserve, 14,000.
    SEC. 415. AUTHORIZED STRENGTHS FOR MARINE CORPS RESERVES ON ACTIVE 
      DUTY.
    (a) Officers.--Section 12011(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended by striking those parts of the table pertaining to the 
Marine Corps Reserve and inserting the following:
    ``Marine Corps Reserve:


1,000.........................           99            63            20
1,200.........................          103            67            21
1,300.........................          107            70            22
1,400.........................          111            73            23
1,500.........................          114            76            24
1,600.........................          117            79            25
1,700.........................          120            82            26
1,800.........................          123            85            27
1,900.........................          126            88            28
2,000.........................          129            91            29
2,100.........................          132            94            30
2,200.........................          134            97            31
2,300.........................          136           100            32
2,400.........................          143           105            34
2,500.........................          149           109            35
2,600.........................          155           113            36
2,700.........................          161           118            37
2,800.........................          167           122            39
2,900.........................          173           126            41
3,000.........................          179           130         42''.
 


    (c) Senior Enlisted Members.--Section 12012(a) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by striking those parts of the table pertaining 
to the Marine Corps Reserve and inserting the following:
    ``Marine Corps Reserve:


1,100.......................................           50            11
1,200.......................................           55            12
1,300.......................................           60            13
1,400.......................................           65            14
1,500.......................................           70            15
1,600.......................................           75            16
1,700.......................................           80            17
1,800.......................................           85            18
1,900.......................................           89            19
2,000.......................................           93            20
2,100.......................................           96            21
2,200.......................................           99            22
2,300.......................................          101            23
2,400.......................................          106            24
2,500.......................................          112            25
2,600.......................................          116            26
2,700.......................................          121            27
2,800.......................................          125            28
2,900.......................................          130            29
3,000.......................................          134         30''.
 



    SEC. 416. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORIZED STRENGTH OF AIR FORCE RESERVE 
      SERVING ON FULL-TIME RESERVE COMPONENT DUTY FOR ADMINISTRATION OF 
      THE RESERVES OR THE NATIONAL GUARD.
    (a) In General.--The table in section 12011(a)(1) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by striking the matter relating to the 
Air Force Reserve and inserting the following new matter:


 
       ``Air Force Reserve
 
1,000                                      166          170          100
1,500                                      245          251          143
2,000                                      322          330          182
2,500                                      396          406          216
3,000                                      467          479          246
3,500                                      536          550          271
4,000                                      602          618          292
4,500                                      665          683          308
5,000                                      726          746          320
5,500                                      784          806          325
6,000                                      840          864          327
7,000                                      962          990          347
8,000                                    1,087        1,110          356
10,000                                   1,322        1,362       395''.
 


    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on October 1, 2019, and shall apply with respect to fiscal 
years beginning on or after that date.

              Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

    SEC. 421. MILITARY PERSONNEL.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 for the use of the Armed Forces 
and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for 
expenses, not otherwise provided for, for military personnel, as 
specified in the funding table in section 4401.
    (b) Construction of Authorization.--The authorization of 
appropriations in subsection (a) supersedes any other authorization of 
appropriations (definite or indefinite) for such purpose for fiscal 
year 2020.

                   TITLE V--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

Sec. 501. Maker of original appointments in a regular or reserve 
          component of commissioned officers previously subject to 
          original appointment in other type of component.
Sec. 502. Furnishing of adverse information on officers to promotion 
          selection boards.
Sec. 503. Limitation on number of officers recommendable for promotion 
          by promotion selection boards.
Sec. 504. Expansion of authority for continuation on active duty of 
          officers in certain military specialties and career tracks.
Sec. 505. Management policies for joint qualified officers.
Sec. 506. Modification of authorities on management of deployments of 
          members of the Armed Forces and related unit operating and 
          personnel tempo matters.
Sec. 507. Personnel tempo of the Armed Forces and the United States 
          Special Operations Command during periods of inapplicability 
          of high-deployment limitations.
Sec. 508. Permanent authority to defer past age 64 the retirement of 
          chaplains in general and flag officer grades.
Sec. 509. Higher grade in retirement for officers following reopening of 
          determination or certification of retired grade.
Sec. 510. Authority of promotion boards to recommend that officers of 
          particular merit be placed higher on promotion list.
Sec. 510A. Availability on the internet of certain information about 
          officers serving in general or flag officer grades.
Sec. 510B. Functional badge or insignia upon commission for chaplains.

                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

Sec. 511. Modification of grade level threshold for Junior Reserve 
          Officers' Training Corps.
Sec. 512. Inclusion of STEM in courses of instruction for the Junior 
          Reserve Officers' Training Corps.
Sec. 513. Inclusion of homeschooled students in Junior Reserve Officers' 
          Training Corps units.
Sec. 514. Clarification of eligibility to serve as Commander, Marine 
          Forces Reserve.
Sec. 515. Extension and periodic evaluation of suicide prevention and 
          resilience program for the reserve components.
Sec. 516. Authority to defer mandatory separation at age 68 of officers 
          in medical specialties in the reserve components.
Sec. 517. Modernization of inspection authorities applicable to the 
          National Guard.
Sec. 518. Consultation with Chief of the National Guard Bureau in the 
          appointment or designation of National Guard property and 
          fiscal officers.
Sec. 519. Coast Guard Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps.
Sec. 520. Repeal of requirement for review of certain Army Reserve 
          officer unit vacancy promotions by commanders of associated 
          active duty units.
Sec. 520A. Report on methods to enhance domestic response to large 
          scale, complex and catastrophic disasters.
Sec. 520B. Report and briefing on the Senior Reserve Officers' Training 
          Corps.
Sec. 520C. Sense of Congress on increase in number of Junior Reserve 
          Officers' Training Corps units.

   Subtitle C--General Service Authorities and Correction of Military 
                                 Records

Sec. 521. Advice and counsel of trauma experts in review by boards for 
          correction of military records and discharge review boards of 
          certain claims.
Sec. 522. Reduction in required number of members of discharge review 
          boards.
Sec. 523. Establishment of process to review a request for upgrade of 
          discharge or dismissal.
Sec. 524. Prohibition on reduction in the number of personnel assigned 
          to duty with a service review agency.
Sec. 525. Training of members of boards for correction of military 
          records and discharge review boards on sexual trauma, intimate 
          partner violence, spousal abuse, and related matters.
Sec. 526. Time requirements for certification of honorable service.
Sec. 527. Correction of certain discharge characterizations.
Sec. 528. Development of guidelines for use of unofficial sources of 
          information to determine eligibility of members and former 
          members of the Armed Forces for decorations when the service 
          records are incomplete because of damage to the official 
          record.
Sec. 529. Strategic plan for diversity and inclusion.
Sec. 530. Study regarding screening individuals who seek to enlist in 
          the Armed Forces.
Sec. 530A. Feasibility study regarding notification to Secretary of 
          Homeland Security of honorable discharges of non-citizens.
Sec. 530B. Sense of Congress regarding accession physicals.

                      Subtitle D--Military Justice

Sec. 531. Expansion of pre-referral matters reviewable by military 
          judges and military magistrates in the interest of efficiency 
          in military justice.
Sec. 532. Command influence.
Sec. 533. Statute of limitations for certain offenses.
Sec. 534. Public access to dockets, filings, and court records of 
          courts-martial or other records of trial of the military 
          justice system.
Sec. 535. Extension of Defense Advisory Committee on Investigation, 
          Prosecution, and Defense of Sexual Assault in the Armed 
          Forces.
Sec. 536. Authority for return of personal property to victims of sexual 
          assault who file a Restricted Report before conclusion of 
          related proceedings.
Sec. 537. Guidelines on sentences for offenses committed under the 
          Uniform Code of Military Justice.
Sec. 538. Notification of significant events and documentation of 
          preference for prosecution jurisdiction for victims of sexual 
          assault.
Sec. 539. Increase in number of digital forensic examiners for certain 
          military criminal investigative organizations.
Sec. 540. Increase in investigative personnel and Victim Witness 
          Assistance Program liaisons.
Sec. 540A. Training for sexual assault initial disposition authorities 
          on exercise of disposition authority for sexual assault and 
          collateral offenses.
Sec. 540B. Training for commanders in the Armed Forces on their role in 
          all stages of military justice in connection with sexual 
          assault.
Sec. 540C. Timely disposition of nonprosecutable sex-related offenses.
Sec. 540D. Department of Defense-wide policy and military department-
          specific programs on reinvigoration of the prevention of 
          sexual assault involving members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 540E. Recommendations on separate punitive article in the Uniform 
          Code of Military Justice on sexual harassment.
Sec. 540F. Report on military justice system involving alternative 
          authority for determining whether to prefer or refer changes 
          for felony offenses under the Uniform Code of Military 
          Justice.
Sec. 540G. Report on standardization among the military departments in 
          collection and presentation of information on matters within 
          the military justice system.
Sec. 540H. Report on expansion of Air Force safe to report policy across 
          the Armed Forces.
Sec. 540I. Assessment of racial, ethnic, and gender disparities in the 
          military justice system.
Sec. 540J. Pilot programs on defense investigators in the military 
          justice system.
Sec. 540K. Report on preservation of recourse to restricted report on 
          sexual assault for victims of sexual assault following certain 
          victim or third-party communications.
Sec. 540L. Report on establishment of guardian ad litem program for 
          certain military dependents who are a victim or witness of an 
          offense under the Uniform Code of Military Justice involving 
          abuse or exploitation.
Sec. 540M. Comptroller General of the United States report on 
          implementation by the Armed Forces of recent statutory 
          requirements on sexual assault prevention and response in the 
          military.
Sec. 540N. Sense of Congress on the Port Chicago 50.

                     Subtitle E--Other Legal Matters

Sec. 541. Improvement of certain Special Victims' Counsel authorities.
Sec. 542. Availability of Special Victims' Counsel at military 
          installations.
Sec. 543. Notification of issuance of military protective order to 
          civilian law enforcement.
Sec. 544. Copyright protection for civilian faculty of certain 
          accredited institutions.
Sec. 545. Termination of leases of premises and motor vehicles of 
          servicemembers who incur catastrophic injury or illness or die 
          while in military service.
Sec. 546. Military orders required for termination of leases pursuant to 
          the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act.
Sec. 547. Preservation of right to bring class action under 
          Servicemembers Civil Relief Act.
Sec. 548. Legal counsel for victims of alleged domestic violence 
          offenses.
Sec. 549. Notice to victims of alleged sexual assault of pendency of 
          further administrative action following a determination not to 
          refer to trial by court-martial.
Sec. 550. Treatment of information in Catch a Serial Offender Program 
          for certain purposes.
Sec. 550A. Policies and procedures on registration at military 
          installations of civilian protective orders applicable to 
          members of the Armed Forces assigned to such installations and 
          certain other individuals.
Sec. 550B. Defense Advisory Committee for the Prevention of Sexual 
          Misconduct.
Sec. 550C. Training for Special Victims' Counsel on civilian criminal 
          justice matters in the States of the military installations to 
          which assigned.
Sec. 550D. Enhancing the capability of military criminal investigative 
          organizations to prevent and combat child sexual exploitation.
Sec. 550E. Feasibility study on establishment of database of military 
          protective orders.
Sec. 550F. GAO review of USERRA and SCRA.

                      Subtitle F--Member Education

Sec. 551. Authority for detail of certain enlisted members of the Armed 
          Forces as students at law schools.
Sec. 552. Inclusion of Coast Guard in Department of Defense STARBASE 
          Program.
Sec. 553. Degree granting authority for United States Army Armament 
          Graduate School; limitation on establishment of certain 
          educational institutions.
Sec. 554. Prohibition on off-duty employment for cadets and midshipmen 
          completing obligated service after graduation.
Sec. 555. Consideration of request for transfer of a cadet or midshipman 
          at a military service academy who is the victim of a sexual 
          assault or related offense.
Sec. 556. Redesignation of the Commandant of the United States Air Force 
          Institute of Technology as the Director and Chancellor of such 
          Institute.
Sec. 557. Eligibility of additional enlisted members for associate 
          degree programs of the Community College of the Air Force.
Sec. 558. Speech disorders of cadets and midshipmen.
Sec. 559. Requirement to continue provision of tuition assistance for 
          members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 560. Information on institutions of higher education participating 
          in the Department of Defense Tuition Assistance Program.
Sec. 560A. Inclusion of information on free credit monitoring in annual 
          financial literacy briefing.
Sec. 560B. Programs to facilitate the award of private pilot's 
          certificates.

               Subtitle G--Member Training and Transition

Sec. 561. Requirement to provide information regarding benefits claims 
          to members during TAP counseling.
Sec. 562. Participation of other Federal agencies in the SkillBridge 
          apprenticeship and internship program for members of the Armed 
          Forces.
Sec. 563. First modification of elements of report on the improved 
          Transition Assistance Program.
Sec. 564. Second modification of elements of report on the improved 
          Transition Assistance Program.
Sec. 565. Prohibition on gender-segregated training at Marine Corps 
          Recruit Depots.
Sec. 566. Assessment of deaths of recruits under the jurisdiction of the 
          Secretaries of the military departments.
Sec. 567. Review of Department of Defense training programs regarding 
          disinformation campaigns.
Sec. 568. Command matters in connection with transition assistance 
          programs.
Sec. 569. Machine readability and electronic transferability of 
          Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD Form 
          214).
Sec. 570. Records of service for Reserves.
Sec. 570A. Limitations and requirements in connection with separations 
          for members of the Armed Forces who suffer from mental health 
          conditions in connection with a sex-related, intimate partner 
          violence-related, or spousal-abuse offense.
Sec. 570B. Prohibition on involuntary separation of certain members of 
          the Armed Forces; consideration of military service in removal 
          determinations.
Sec. 570C. Inclusion of question regarding immigration status on 
          preseparation counseling checklist (DD Form 2648).
Sec. 570D. Counseling for members of the Armed Forces who are not 
          citizens of the United States on naturalization in the United 
          States.
Sec. 570E. Pilot program on information sharing between Department of 
          Defense and designated relatives and friends of members of the 
          Armed Forces regarding the experiences and challenges of 
          military service.
Sec. 570F. Connections of members retiring or separating from the Armed 
          Forces with community-based organizations and related 
          entities.
Sec. 570G. Pilot program regarding online application for the Transition 
          Assistance Program.

     Subtitle H--Military Family Readiness and Dependents' Education

Sec. 571. Authorizing members to take leave for a birth or adoption in 
          more than one increment.
Sec. 572. Deferred deployment for members who give birth.
Sec. 573. Authority of the Secretary concerned to transport remains of a 
          covered decedent to no more than two places selected by the 
          person designated to direct disposition of the remains.
Sec. 574. Military funeral honors matters.
Sec. 575. Improvement of occupational license portability for relocated 
          spouses of members of the uniformed services.
Sec. 576. Continued eligibility for education and training opportunities 
          for spouses of promoted members.
Sec. 577. Modification to authority to reimburse for State licensure and 
          certification costs of a spouse of a servicemember arising 
          from relocation.
Sec. 578. Clarification regarding eligibility to transfer entitlement 
          under Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Program.
Sec. 579. Annual State report card.
Sec. 580. Improvements to child care for members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 580A. Transportation of remains of casualties; travel expenses for 
          next of kin.
Sec. 580B. Meetings of officials of the Department of Defense with 
          representative groups of survivors of deceased members of the 
          Armed Forces.
Sec. 580C. Information and opportunities for registration for voting and 
          absentee ballot requests for members of the Armed Forces 
          undergoing deployment overseas.
Sec. 580D. Study on two-way military ballot barcode tracking.
Sec. 580E. Assistance to schools with military dependent students.
Sec. 580F. First expansion of the My Career Advancement Account program 
          for military spouses.
Sec. 580G. Second expansion of the My Career Advancement Account program 
          for military spouses.
Sec. 580H. Report on training and support available to military spouses.
Sec. 580I. Ri'katak Guest Student Program at United States Army 
          Garrison-Kwajalein Atoll.

                   Subtitle I--Decorations and Awards

Sec. 581. Modification of authorities on eligibility for and replacement 
          of gold star lapel buttons.
Sec. 582. Standardization of honorable service requirement for award of 
          military decorations.
Sec. 583. Authorization for award of the Medal of Honor to John J. Duffy 
          for acts of valor in Vietnam.
Sec. 584. Review of World War I valor medals.

           Subtitle J--Miscellaneous Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 591. Clarification of the term ``assault'' for purposes of 
          Workplace and Gender Relations Surveys.
Sec. 592. Inclusion of certain veterans on temporary disability or 
          permanent disabled retirement lists in military adaptive 
          sports programs.
Sec. 593. Questions in surveys regarding extremist activity in the 
          workplace.
Sec. 594. Study on best practices for providing financial literacy 
          education for separating members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 595. Report on oversight of authorized strengths of certain grades 
          of commissioned regular and reserve officers of the Armed 
          Forces.
Sec. 596. Report on certain waivers.
Sec. 597. Notifications on manning of afloat naval forces.
Sec. 598. Report regarding use of aerial systems of the Department of 
          Defense to support agencies of States, Territories, and the 
          Federal Government.
Sec. 599. Information for members of the Armed Forces on availability of 
          services of the Department of Veterans Affairs relating to 
          sexual trauma.
Sec. 599A. Authority to issue an honorary promotion to Colonel Charles 
          E. McGee, United States Air Force (ret.), to the grade of 
          brigadier general.
Sec. 599B. Authority to issue an honorary and posthumous promotion to 
          Lieutenant Colonel Richard Cole, United States Air Force 
          (ret.), to the grade of colonel.
Sec. 599C. Sense of Congress on the honorable and distinguished service 
          of General Joseph F. Dunford, United States Marine Corps, to 
          the United States.

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

    SEC. 501. MAKER OF ORIGINAL APPOINTMENTS IN A REGULAR OR RESERVE 
      COMPONENT OF COMMISSIONED OFFICERS PREVIOUSLY SUBJECT TO ORIGINAL 
      APPOINTMENT IN OTHER TYPE OF COMPONENT.
    (a) Maker of Regular Appointments in Transfer From Reserve Active-
status List to Active-duty List.--Section 531(c) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``the Secretary concerned'' and 
inserting ``the Secretary of Defense''.
    (b) Maker of Reserve Appointments in Transfer From Active-duty List 
to Reserve Active-status List.--Section 12203(b) of such title is 
amended by striking ``the Secretary concerned'' and inserting ``the 
Secretary of Defense''.
    (c) Report.--Not later than April 1, 2020, the Secretary of Defense 
shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives a report setting forth the following:
        (1) The average number per fiscal year, during fiscal years 
    2010 through 2019, of transfers of appointment from regular officer 
    to reserve officer in the Armed Forces, set forth by each of 
    transfers requiring and transfers not requiring appointment by and 
    with the advice and consent of the Senate.
        (2) The average amount of time required per fiscal year, during 
    such fiscal years, for completion of a transfer of appointment from 
    regular officer to reserve officer in situations not requiring 
    appointment by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
        (3) An assessment of the number of officers who experience a 
    break-in-service due to delays in transfer of appointment from 
    regular officer to reserve officer as a result of the requirement 
    for appointment by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
        (4) An assessment of the feasibility and advisability of each 
    of the following:
            (A) Appointment of regular officers as both a regular 
        officer and a reserve officer immediately upon commissioning.
            (B) Consolidation of the provisions of title 10, United 
        States Code, relating to appointment as a regular or reserve 
        officer in a manner designed to facilitate and improve officer 
        retention.
        (5) Such other recommendations for legislative or 
    administrative action as the Secretary considers appropriate to 
    improve the rapid transfer of appointment of an officer from 
    regular status to reserve status.
    SEC. 502. FURNISHING OF ADVERSE INFORMATION ON OFFICERS TO 
      PROMOTION SELECTION BOARDS.
    (a) Expansion of Grades of Officers for Which Information Is 
Furnished.--Section 615(a)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(3)'';
        (2) in subparagraph (A), as designated by paragraph (1), by 
    striking ``a grade above colonel or, in the case of the Navy, 
    captain'' and inserting ``a grade specified in subparagraph (B)''; 
    and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(B) A grade specified in this subparagraph is as follows:
        ``(i) In the case of a regular officer, a grade above captain 
    or, in the case of the Navy, lieutenant.
        ``(ii) In the case of a reserve officer, a grade above 
    lieutenant colonel or, in the case of the Navy, commander.''.
    (b) Furnishing at Every Phase of Consideration.--Such section is 
further amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(C) The standards and procedures referred to in subparagraph (A) 
shall require the furnishing to the selection board, and to each 
individual member of the board, the information described in that 
subparagraph with regard to an officer in a grade specified in 
subparagraph (B) at each stage or phase of the selection board, 
concurrent with the screening, rating, assessment, evaluation, 
discussion, or other consideration by the board or member of the 
official military personnel file of the officer, or of the officer.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with 
respect to the proceedings of promotion selection boards convened under 
section 611(a) of title 10, United States Code, after that date.
    SEC. 503. LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF OFFICERS RECOMMENDABLE FOR 
      PROMOTION BY PROMOTION SELECTION BOARDS.
    (a) In General.--Section 616 of title 10, United States Code is 
amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (d), (e), (f), and (g) as 
    subsections (e), (f), (g), and (h), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
    subsection (d):
    ``(d) The number of officers recommended for promotion by a 
selection board convened under section 611(a) of this title may not 
exceed the number equal to 95 percent of the number of officers 
included in the promotion zone established under section 623 of this 
title for consideration by the board.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with 
respect to consideration by promotion selection boards convened under 
section 611(a) of title 10, United States Code, of promotion zones that 
are established under section 623 of that title on or after that date.
    SEC. 504. EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY FOR CONTINUATION ON ACTIVE DUTY OF 
      OFFICERS IN CERTAIN MILITARY SPECIALTIES AND CAREER TRACKS.
    Section 637a(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting ``separation or'' after ``provided for the''.
    SEC. 505. MANAGEMENT POLICIES FOR JOINT QUALIFIED OFFICERS.
    Section 661(d)(3)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is amended in 
the third sentence by inserting ``or a designee of the Chairman who is 
an officer of the armed forces in grade O-9 or higher'' before the 
period.
    SEC. 506. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITIES ON MANAGEMENT OF DEPLOYMENTS 
      OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND RELATED UNIT OPERATING AND 
      PERSONNEL TEMPO MATTERS.
    (a) Limitation on Scope of Delegations of Approval of Exceptions to 
Deployment Thresholds.--Paragraph (3) of section 991(a) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``be delegated to--'' and 
all that follows and inserting ``be delegated to a civilian officer of 
the Department of Defense appointed by the President, by and with the 
advice and consent of the Senate.''.
    (b) Separate Policies on Dwell Time for Regular and Reserve 
Members.--Paragraph (4) of such section is amended--
        (1) by striking ``addresses the amount'' and inserting 
    ``addresses each of the following:
        ``(A) The amount.'';
        (2) in subparagraph (A), as designated by paragraph (1), by 
    inserting ``regular'' before ``member''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
        ``(B) The amount of dwell time a reserve member of the armed 
    forces remains at the member's permanent duty station after 
    completing a deployment of 30 days or more in length.''.
    SEC. 507. PERSONNEL TEMPO OF THE ARMED FORCES AND THE UNITED STATES 
      SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND DURING PERIODS OF INAPPLICABILITY OF 
      HIGH-DEPLOYMENT LIMITATIONS.
    (a) In General.--Section 991(d) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``The Secretary''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2)(A) Whenever a waiver is in effect under paragraph (1), the 
member or group of members covered by the waiver shall be subject to 
specific and measurable deployment thresholds established and 
maintained for purposes of this subsection.
    ``(B) Thresholds under this paragraph may be applicable--
        ``(i) uniformly, Department of Defense-wide; or
        ``(ii) separately, with respect to each armed force or the 
    United States Special Operations Command.
    ``(C) If thresholds under this paragraph are applicable Department-
wide, such thresholds shall be established and maintained by the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness. If such thresholds 
are applicable only to one armed force or the Under States Special 
Operations Command, such thresholds shall be established and maintained 
respectively by the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Navy 
(other than with respect to the Marine Corps), the Secretary of the Air 
Force, the Commandant of the Marine Corps (with respect to the Marine 
Corps), and the Commander of the United States Special Operations 
Command, as applicable.
    ``(D) In undertaking recordkeeping for purposes of subsection (c), 
the Under Secretary shall, in conjunction with the officials and 
officers referred to in subparagraph (C), collect complete and reliable 
personnel tempo data of members described in subparagraph (A) in order 
to ensure that the Department, the armed forces, and the United States 
Special Operations Command fully and completely monitor personnel tempo 
under any waiver authorized under paragraph (1) and the effect of such 
waiver on the armed forces.''.
    (b) Deadline for Implementation.--Paragraph (2) of section 991(d) 
of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall be 
fully implemented by not later than March 1, 2020.
    SEC. 508. PERMANENT AUTHORITY TO DEFER PAST AGE 64 THE RETIREMENT 
      OF CHAPLAINS IN GENERAL AND FLAG OFFICER GRADES.
    Section 1253(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking paragraph (3).
    SEC. 509. HIGHER GRADE IN RETIREMENT FOR OFFICERS FOLLOWING 
      REOPENING OF DETERMINATION OR CERTIFICATION OF RETIRED GRADE.
    (a) Advice and Consent of Senate Required for Higher Grade.--
Section 1370(f) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6); and
        (2) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new 
    paragraph (5):
    ``(5) If the retired grade of an officer is proposed to be 
increased through the reopening of the determination or certification 
of officer's retired grade, the increase in the retired grade shall be 
made by the Secretary of Defense, by and with the advice and consent of 
the Senate.''.
    (b) Recalculation of Retired Pay.--Paragraph (6) of such section, 
as redesignated by subsection (a)(1), is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``or increased'' after ``reduced'';
        (2) by inserting ``as a result of the reduction or increase'' 
    after ``any modification of the retired pay of the officer'';
        (3) by inserting ``or increase'' after ``the reduction''; and
        (4) by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``An 
    officer whose retired grade is increased as described in the 
    preceding sentence shall not be entitled to an increase in retired 
    pay for any period before the effective date of the increase.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply to an 
increase in the retired grade of an officer that occurs through a 
reopening of the determination or certification of the officer's 
retired grade on or after that date, regardless of when the officer 
retired.
    SEC. 510. AUTHORITY OF PROMOTION BOARDS TO RECOMMEND THAT OFFICERS 
      OF PARTICULAR MERIT BE PLACED HIGHER ON PROMOTION LIST.
    (a) In General.--Section 14108 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Higher Placement of Officers of Particular Merit on Promotion 
List.--(1) In selecting officers to be recommended for promotion, a 
promotion board may, when authorized by the Secretary concerned, 
recommend that officers of particular merit, from among those officers 
selected for promotion, be placed higher on the promotion list 
established by the Secretary under section 14308(a) of this title.
    ``(2) A promotion board may make a recommendation under paragraph 
(1) only if an officer receives the recommendation of--
        ``(A) a majority of the members of the promotion board; or
        ``(B) an alternative requirement established by the Secretary 
    concerned and furnished to the promotion board as part of the 
    guidelines under section 14107 of this title.
    ``(3) For officers who receive recommendations under paragraph (1), 
the board shall recommend the order in which those officers should be 
placed on the promotion list.''.
    (b) Reports Regarding Recommendations That Officers of Particular 
Merit Be Placed Higher on Promotion List.--Section 14109 of such title 
is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Report of Officers Recommended for Higher Placement on 
Promotion List.--A promotion board convened under section 14101(a) of 
this title shall, when authorized under section 14108(f) of this title, 
include in its report to the Secretary concerned--
        ``(1) the names of those officers the promotion board 
    recommends be placed higher on the promotion list; and
        ``(2) the order in which the promotion board recommends those 
    officers should be placed on the promotion list.''.
    (c) Officers of Particular Merit Appearing Higher on Promotion 
List.--Section 14308(a) of such title is amended in the first sentence 
by inserting ``or based on particular merit, as determined by the 
promotion board'' before the period.
SEC. 510A. AVAILABILITY ON THE INTERNET OF CERTAIN INFORMATION ABOUT 
OFFICERS SERVING IN GENERAL OR FLAG OFFICER GRADES.
    (a) Availability Required.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of each military department 
    shall make available on an internet website of such department 
    available to the public information specified in paragraph (2) on 
    each officer in a general or flag officer grade under the 
    jurisdiction of such Secretary, including any such officer on the 
    reserve active-status list.
        (2) Information.--The information on an officer specified by 
    this paragraph to be made available pursuant to paragraph (1) is 
    the information as follows:
            (A) The officer's name.
            (B) The officer's current grade, duty position, command or 
        organization, and location of assignment.
            (C) A summary list of the officer's past duty assignments 
        while serving in a general or flag officer grade.
    (b) Additional Public Notice on Certain Officers.--Whenever an 
officer in a grade of O-7 or above is assigned to a new billet or 
reassigned from a current billet, the Secretary of the military 
department having jurisdiction of such officer shall make available on 
an internet website of such department available to the public a notice 
of such assignment or reassignment.
    (c) Limitation on Withholding of Certain Information or Notice.--
        (1) Limitation.--The Secretary of a military department may not 
    withhold the information or notice specified in subsections (a) and 
    (b) from public availability pursuant to subsection (a), unless and 
    until the Secretary notifies the Committees on Armed Services of 
    the Senate and House of Representatives in writing of the 
    information or notice that will be so withheld, together with 
    justification for withholding the information or notice from public 
    availability.
        (2) Limited duration of withholding.--The Secretary concerned 
    may withhold from the public under paragraph (1) information or 
    notice on an officer only on the basis of individual risk or 
    national security, and may continue to withhold such information or 
    notice only for so long as the basis for withholding remains in 
    force.
SEC. 510B. FUNCTIONAL BADGE OR INSIGNIA UPON COMMISSION FOR CHAPLAINS.
    A military chaplain shall receive a functional badge or insignia 
upon commission.

                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

    SEC. 511. MODIFICATION OF GRADE LEVEL THRESHOLD FOR JUNIOR RESERVE 
      OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS.
    Section 2031(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``above the 8th grade'' each place it appears and inserting 
``above the 7th grade and physically co-located with the 9th grade 
participating unit''.
    SEC. 512. INCLUSION OF STEM IN COURSES OF INSTRUCTION FOR THE 
      JUNIOR RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS.
    (a) In General.--Section 2031(b)(3) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting ``and which may include instruction or 
activities in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and 
mathematics'' after ``duration''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    SEC. 513. INCLUSION OF HOMESCHOOLED STUDENTS IN JUNIOR RESERVE 
      OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS UNITS.
    Section 2031 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g)(1) Each public secondary educational institution that 
maintains a unit under this section shall permit membership in the unit 
to homeschooled students residing in the area served by the institution 
who are qualified for membership in the unit (but for lack of 
enrollment in the institution).
    ``(2) A student who is a member of a unit pursuant to this 
subsection shall count toward the satisfaction by the institution 
concerned of the requirement in subsection (b)(1) relating to the 
minimum number of student members in the unit necessary for the 
continuing maintenance of the unit.''.
    SEC. 514. CLARIFICATION OF ELIGIBILITY TO SERVE AS COMMANDER, 
      MARINE FORCES RESERVE.
    (a) In General.--Section 8084(b)(1) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by striking ``general officers of the Marine Corps (as 
defined in section 8001(2))'' and inserting ``general officers of the 
Marine Corps Reserve''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the date that is one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act and shall apply to appointments made after such 
date.
    SEC. 515. EXTENSION AND PERIODIC EVALUATION OF SUICIDE PREVENTION 
      AND RESILIENCE PROGRAM FOR THE RESERVE COMPONENTS.
    Section 10219 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (h);
        (2) in subsection (h), as redesignated by paragraph (1), by 
    striking ``2020'' and inserting ``2025''; and
        (3) by inserting after subsection (f) the following new 
    subsection (g):
    ``(g) Triennial Evaluation.--The Secretary shall evaluate the 
program every third year beginning in 2022 until the program terminates 
to determine whether the program effectively--
        ``(1) provides training and assistance under subsections (b), 
    (c), and (d); and
        ``(2) implements subsection (e).''.
    SEC. 516. AUTHORITY TO DEFER MANDATORY SEPARATION AT AGE 68 OF 
      OFFICERS IN MEDICAL SPECIALTIES IN THE RESERVE COMPONENTS.
    Section 14703(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking ``An'' and inserting ``(1) Subject to paragraph 
    (2), an''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph (2):
    ``(2) The Secretary concerned may, with the consent of the officer, 
retain in an active status an officer in a medical specialty described 
in subsection (a) beyond the date described in paragraph (1) of this 
subsection if the Secretary concerned determines that such retention is 
necessary to the military department concerned. Each such retention 
shall be made on a case-by-case basis and for such period as the 
Secretary concerned determines appropriate.''.
    SEC. 517. MODERNIZATION OF INSPECTION AUTHORITIES APPLICABLE TO THE 
      NATIONAL GUARD.
    (a) Modernization of Inspection Authorities of Secretaries of the 
Army and Air Force.--Subsection (a) of section 105 of title 32, United 
States Code, is amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)--
            (A) by striking ``by him, the Secretary of the Army shall 
        have'' and inserting ``by such Secretary, the Secretary of the 
        Army and the Secretary of the Air Force shall each have'';
            (B) by striking ``, if necessary,''; and
            (C) by striking ``the Regular Army'' and inserting ``the 
        Regular Army or the Regular Air Force'';
        (2) by striking ``Army National Guard'' each place it appears 
    and inserting ``Army National Guard or Air National Guard''; and
        (3) by striking the flush matter following paragraph (7).
    (b) Inspection Authority of Chief of the National Guard Bureau on 
Behalf of Secretaries.--Such section is further amended by adding at 
the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) The Chief of the National Guard Bureau may have an inspection 
described in subsection (a) made by inspectors general, or by 
commissioned officers of the Army National Guard of the United States 
or the Air National Guard of the United States detailed for that 
purpose, on behalf of the Secretary of the Army or the Secretary of the 
Air Force. Any such inspection may be made only with the approval of 
the Secretary of the Army or the Secretary of the Air Force, as 
applicable.''.
    SEC. 518. CONSULTATION WITH CHIEF OF THE NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU IN 
      THE APPOINTMENT OR DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL GUARD PROPERTY AND 
      FISCAL OFFICERS.
    Section 708(a) of title 32, United States Code, is amended in the 
first sentence by inserting ``, in consultation with the Chief of the 
National Guard Bureau,'' after ``shall''.
    SEC. 519. COAST GUARD JUNIOR RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 3 of title 14, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 320. Coast Guard Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps
    ``(a) Establishment.--The Secretary of the department in which the 
Coast Guard is operating may establish and maintain a Junior Reserve 
Officers' Training Corps, organized into units, at public and private 
secondary educational institutions.
    ``(b) Applicability.--Except as provided in subsection (c), the 
provisions of chapter 102 of title 10 shall apply to a Junior Reserve 
Officers' Training Corps established and maintained under this section 
in the same manner that such provisions apply to the Junior Reserve 
Officers' Training Corps of each military department. For purposes of 
the application of such provisions to this section--
        ``(1) any reference in such provisions to a `military 
    department' shall be treated as a reference to the department in 
    which the Coast Guard is operating; and
        ``(2) any reference in such provisions to a `Secretary of a 
    military department', a `Secretary concerned', or the `Secretary of 
    Defense' shall be treated as a reference to the Secretary of the 
    department in which the Coast Guard is operating.
    ``(c) Exception.--The requirements of chapter 102 of title 10 shall 
not apply to a unit of the Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps 
established by the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard 
is operating before the date of the enactment of this section unless 
the Secretary determines it is appropriate to apply such requirements 
to such unit.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``320. Coast Guard Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps.''.
    SEC. 520. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT FOR REVIEW OF CERTAIN ARMY RESERVE 
      OFFICER UNIT VACANCY PROMOTIONS BY COMMANDERS OF ASSOCIATED 
      ACTIVE DUTY UNITS.
    Section 1113 of the Army National Guard Combat Readiness Reform Act 
of 1992 (Public Law 102-484; 10 U.S.C. 10105 note) is repealed.
SEC. 520A. REPORT ON METHODS TO ENHANCE DOMESTIC RESPONSE TO LARGE 
SCALE, COMPLEX AND CATASTROPHIC DISASTERS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation and 
coordination with the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the National 
Security Council, the Council of Governors, and the National Governors 
Association, shall submit to the congressional defense committees, the 
Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives, and the 
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a 
report on the plan of the Department to establish policy and processes 
to implement the authority under section 502 of title 32, United States 
Code. The report shall include a detailed examination of the policy 
framework consistent with existing authorities, identify major 
statutory or policy impediments to implementation, and make 
recommendations for legislation as appropriate.
    (b) Contents.--The report submitted under subsection (a) shall 
include a description of--
        (1) the current policy and processes whereby governors can 
    request activation of the National Guard under title 32, United 
    States Code, as part of the response to large scale, complex, 
    catastrophic disasters that are supported by the Federal Government 
    and, if no formal process exists in policy, the Secretary of 
    Defense shall provide a timeline and plan to establish such a 
    policy, including consultation with the Council of Governors and 
    the National Governors Association;
        (2) the Secretary of Defense's assessment, informed by 
    consultation with the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the 
    National Security Council, the Council of Governors, and the 
    National Governors Association, regarding the sufficiency of 
    current authorities for the reimbursement of National Guard and 
    Reserve manpower during large scale, complex, catastrophic 
    disasters under title 10 and title 32, United States Code, and 
    specifically whether reimbursement authorities are sufficient to 
    ensure that military training and readiness are not degraded to 
    fund disaster response, or whether invoking such reimbursement 
    authorities degrades the effectiveness of the Disaster Relief Fund;
        (3) the Department of Defense's plan to ensure there is 
    parallel and consistent policy in the application of the 
    authorities granted under section 12304a of title 10, United States 
    Code, and section 502(f) of title 32, United States Code, 
    including--
            (A) a description of the disparities between benefits and 
        protections under Federal law versus State active duty;
            (B) recommended solutions to achieve parity at the Federal 
        level; and
            (C) recommended changes at the State level, if appropriate; 
        and
        (4) the Department of Defense's plan to ensure there is parity 
    of benefits and protections for military members employed as part 
    of the response to large scale, complex, catastrophic disasters 
    under title 32 or title 10, United States Code, and recommendations 
    for addressing any shortfalls.
SEC. 520B. REPORT AND BRIEFING ON THE SENIOR RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING 
CORPS.
    (a) Report on Various Expansions of the Corps.--Not later than one 
year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
and the House of Representatives a report setting forth the following:
        (1) An assessment of the feasibility and advisability of 
    distance learning programs for the Senior Reserve Officers' 
    Training Corps for students at educational institutions who reside 
    outside the viable range for a cross-town program.
        (2) An assessment of the feasibility and advisability of 
    expanding the eligibility of institutions authorized to maintain a 
    unit of the Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps to include 
    community colleges.
    (b) Briefing on Long-term Effects on the Corps of the Operation of 
Certain Recent Prohibitions.--
        (1) Briefing required.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
    of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall brief 
    the congressional defense committees on the effects of the 
    prohibitions in section 8032 of the Department of Defense 
    Appropriations Act, 2019 (division A of Public Law 115-245) on the 
    long-term viability of the Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps.
        (2) Elements.--The matters addressed by the briefing under 
    paragraph (1) shall include an assessment of the effects of the 
    prohibitions described in paragraph (1) on the following:
            (A) Readiness.
            (B) The efficient manning and administration of Senior 
        Reserve Officers' Training Corps units.
            (C) The ability of the Armed Forces to commission on a 
        yearly basis the number and quality of new officers they need 
        and that are representative of the nation as a whole.
            (D) The availability of Senior Reserve Officers' Training 
        Corps scholarships in rural areas.
            (E) Whether the Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps 
        program produces officers representative of the demographic and 
        geographic diversity of the United States, especially with 
        respect to urban areas, and whether restrictions on 
        establishing or disestablishing units of the Corps affects the 
        diversity of the officer corps of the Armed Forces.
SEC. 520C. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON INCREASE IN NUMBER OF JUNIOR RESERVE 
OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS UNITS.
    It is the sense of Congress that the Junior Reserve Officers' 
Training Corps was supported in the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) and should 
be increased in fiscal year 2020 to include not fewer than 3,700 units 
nationwide.

  Subtitle C--General Service Authorities and Correction of Military 
                                Records

    SEC. 521. ADVICE AND COUNSEL OF TRAUMA EXPERTS IN REVIEW BY BOARDS 
      FOR CORRECTION OF MILITARY RECORDS AND DISCHARGE REVIEW BOARDS OF 
      CERTAIN CLAIMS.
    (a) Boards for Correction of Military Records.--Section 1552(g) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(g)''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) If a board established under subsection (a)(1) is reviewing a 
claim described in subsection (h), the board shall seek advice and 
counsel in the review from a psychiatrist, psychologist, or social 
worker with training on mental health issues associated with post-
traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain injury or other trauma as 
specified in the current edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical 
Manual of Mental Disorders published by the American Psychiatric 
Association.
    ``(3) If a board established under subsection (a)(1) is reviewing a 
claim in which sexual trauma, intimate partner violence, or spousal 
abuse is claimed, the board shall seek advice and counsel in the review 
from an expert in trauma specific to sexual assault, intimate partner 
violence, or spousal abuse, as applicable.''.
    (b) Discharge Review Boards.--Section 1553(d)(1) of such title is 
amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(1)''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph;
    ``(B) In the case of a former member described in paragraph (3)(B) 
who claims that the former member's post-traumatic stress disorder or 
traumatic brain injury as described in that paragraph in based in whole 
or in part on sexual trauma, intimate partner violence, or spousal 
abuse, a board established under this section to review the former 
member's discharge or dismissal shall seek advice and counsel in the 
review from a psychiatrist, psychologist, or social worker with 
training on mental health issues associated with post-traumatic stress 
disorder or traumatic brain injury or other trauma as specified in the 
current edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental 
Disorders published by the American Psychiatric Association.''.
    SEC. 522. REDUCTION IN REQUIRED NUMBER OF MEMBERS OF DISCHARGE 
      REVIEW BOARDS.
    Section 1553(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``five'' and inserting ``not fewer than three''.
SECTION 523. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROCESS TO REVIEW A REQUEST FOR UPGRADE 
OF DISCHARGE OR DISMISSAL.
    (a) Establishment.--Chapter 79 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 1553 the following new section 
1553a:
``Sec. 1553a. Review of a request for upgrade of discharge or dismissal
    ``(a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish a 
process by which to conduct a final review of a request for an upgrade 
in the characterization of a discharge or dismissal.
    ``(b) Consideration; Recommendation.--(1) Upon the request of a 
petitioner, the Secretary of Defense shall review the findings and 
decisions of the boards established under sections 1552 and 1553 of 
this title regarding the final review of a request for an upgrade in 
the characterization of a discharge or dismissal.
    ``(2) The Secretary of Defense may recommend that the Secretary of 
the military department concerned upgrade the characterization of the 
discharge or dismissal of the petitioner if the Secretary of Defense 
determines that such recommendation is appropriate after review under 
paragraph (1).
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `final review of a request for an upgrade in the 
    characterization of a discharge or dismissal' means a request by a 
    petitioner for an upgrade to the characterization of a discharge or 
    dismissal--
            ``(A) that was not granted under sections 1552 and 1553 of 
        this title; and
            ``(B) regarding which the Secretary of Defense determines 
        the petitioner has exhausted all remedies available to the 
        petitioner under sections 1552 and 1553 of this title.
        ``(2) The term `petitioner' means a member or former member of 
    the armed forces (or if the member or former member is dead, the 
    surviving spouse, next of kin, or legal representative of the 
    member or former member) whose request for an upgrade to the 
    characterization of a discharge or dismissal was not granted under 
    sections 1552 and 1553 of this title.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
    section 1553 the following new item:

``1553a. Review of a request for upgrade of discharge or dismissal.''.

        (2) Conforming amendments.--
            (A) Section 1552(a)(4) of such title is amended to read as 
        follows:
    ``(4)(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), a correction under this 
section is final and conclusive on all officers of the United States 
except when procured by fraud.
    ``(B) If a board established under this section does not grant a 
request for an upgrade to the characterization of a discharge or 
dismissal, that declination may be considered under section 1553a of 
this title.''.
            (B) Section 1553(b) of such title is amended--
                (i) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``A board''; and
                (ii) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) If a board established under this section does not grant a 
request for an upgrade to the characterization of a discharge or 
dismissal, that declination may be considered under section 1552 or 
section 1553a of this title, as applicable.''.
    (c) Deadline.--The Secretary of Defense shall implement section 
1553a of such title, as added by subsection (a), not later than January 
1, 2021.
    (d) Resources.--In establishing and implementing the process under 
such section 1553a, the Secretary of Defense shall, to the maximum 
extent practicable, use existing organizations, boards, processes, and 
personnel of the Department of Defense.
    (e) Reporting.--
        (1) Report.--Not later than January 1, 2022, the Secretary of 
    Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
    Senate and the House of Representatives a report regarding the 
    process established under such section 1553a. The report shall 
    include, with respect to considerations under such process since 
    implementation, the following:
            (A) The number of requests considered.
            (B) The number of upgrades to the characterization of a 
        discharge or dismissal granted pursuant to such process, 
        including the most common reasons for such upgrades.
            (C) The number of upgrades to the characterization of a 
        discharge or dismissal declined pursuant to such process, 
        including the most common reasons for such declinations.
        (2) Online publication.--On October 1, 2022, and annually 
    thereafter, the Secretary shall publish the information described 
    in paragraph (1) with regards to the immediately preceding fiscal 
    year on a website of the Department of Defense that is accessible 
    by the public.
    SEC. 524. PROHIBITION ON REDUCTION IN THE NUMBER OF PERSONNEL 
      ASSIGNED TO DUTY WITH A SERVICE REVIEW AGENCY.
    (a) Prohibition.--Section 1559(a) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended--
        (1) by striking ``December 31, 2019'' and inserting ``December 
    31, 2025'';
        (2) by striking ``that agency until--'' and inserting ``that 
    agency.''; and
        (3) by striking subsections (1) and (2).
    (b) Report.--
        (1) Report required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of each military department 
    shall submit a report to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
    Senate and House of Representatives that details a plan to--
            (A) reduce the backlog of applications before the service 
        review agency of the military department concerned; and
            (B) maintain the resources required to meet the timeliness 
        standards for disposition of applications before the 
        Corrections Boards under section 1557 of title 10, United 
        States Code, not later than October 1, 2021.
        (2) Elements.--Each report under this subsection shall include 
    the following:
            (A) A description of the current backlog of applications 
        before the service review agency of the military department 
        concerned.
            (B) The number of personnel required to meet the deadline 
        described in paragraph (1)(B).
            (C) The plan of the Secretary concerned to modernize the 
        application and review system of the service review agency of 
        the military department concerned.
    SEC. 525. TRAINING OF MEMBERS OF BOARDS FOR CORRECTION OF MILITARY 
      RECORDS AND DISCHARGE REVIEW BOARDS ON SEXUAL TRAUMA, INTIMATE 
      PARTNER VIOLENCE, SPOUSAL ABUSE, AND RELATED MATTERS.
    (a) Boards for Correction of Military Records.--The curriculum of 
training for members of boards for the correction of military records 
under section 534(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2017 (10 U.S.C. 1552 note) shall include training on each 
of the following:
        (1) Sexual trauma.
        (2) Intimate partner violence.
        (3) Spousal abuse.
        (4) The various responses of individuals to trauma.
    (b) Discharge Review Boards.--
        (1) In general.--Each Secretary concerned shall develop and 
    provide training for members of discharge review boards under 
    section 1553 of title 10, United States Code, that are under the 
    jurisdiction of such Secretary on each of the following:
            (A) Sexual trauma.
            (B) Intimate partner violence.
            (C) Spousal abuse.
            (D) The various responses of individuals to trauma.
        (2) Uniformity of training.--The Secretary of Defense and the 
    Secretary of Homeland Security shall jointly ensure that the 
    training developed and provided pursuant to this subsection is, to 
    the extent practicable, uniform.
        (3) Secretary concerned defined.--In this subsection, the term 
    ``Secretary concerned'' has the meaning given that term in section 
    101(a)(9) of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 526. TIME REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTIFICATION OF HONORABLE SERVICE.
    The Secretary of Defense shall publish regulations for submission 
and processing of a completed United States Citizenship and Immigration 
Services Form N-426, by a member of the Armed Forces. Such regulations 
shall designate the appropriate level for the certifying officer as 
well as establish time requirements for the form to be returned to the 
member of the Armed Forces.
    SEC. 527. CORRECTION OF CERTAIN DISCHARGE CHARACTERIZATIONS.
    (a) In General.--In accordance with this section, and in a manner 
that is consistent across the military departments to the greatest 
extent practicable, the appropriate board shall, at the request of a 
covered member or the authorized representative of a covered member--
        (1) review the discharge characterization of that covered 
    member; and
        (2) change the discharge characterization of that covered 
    member to honorable if the appropriate board determines such change 
    to be appropriate after review under paragraph (1).
    (b) Appeal.--A covered member or the authorized representative of 
that covered member may seek review of a decision by the appropriate 
board not to change the discharge characterization of that covered 
member. Such review may be made pursuant to section 1552 of title 10, 
United States Code, section 1553 of such title, or any other process 
established by the Secretary of Defense for such purpose.
    (c) Change of Records.--For each covered member whose discharge 
characterization is changed under subsection (a) or (b), the Secretary 
of the military department concerned shall issue to the covered member 
or the authorized representative of the covered member a corrected 
Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD Form 214), or 
other like form regularly used by an Armed Force that--
        (1) reflects the upgraded discharge characterization of the 
    covered member; and
        (2) does not reflect the sexual orientation of the covered 
    member or the original stated reason for the discharge or dismissal 
    of that covered member.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``appropriate board'' means a board for the 
    correction of military or naval records under section 1552 of title 
    10, United States Code, or a discharge review board under section 
    1553 of such title, as the case may be.
        (2) The term ``authorized representative'' means an heir or 
    legal representative of a covered member.
        (3) The term ``covered member'' means any former member of the 
    Armed Forces who was discharged from the Armed Forces because of 
    the sexual orientation of that member.
        (4) The term ``discharge characterization'' means the 
    characterization assigned to the service of a covered member on the 
    discharge or dismissal of that covered member from service in the 
    Armed Forces.
    SEC. 528. DEVELOPMENT OF GUIDELINES FOR USE OF UNOFFICIAL SOURCES 
      OF INFORMATION TO DETERMINE ELIGIBILITY OF MEMBERS AND FORMER 
      MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES FOR DECORATIONS WHEN THE SERVICE 
      RECORDS ARE INCOMPLETE BECAUSE OF DAMAGE TO THE OFFICIAL RECORD.
    (a) Guidelines Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop 
guidelines regarding the use by the Secretaries of the military 
departments of unofficial sources of information, including eyewitness 
statements, to determine the eligibility of a member or former member 
of the Armed Forces for decorations when the service records of the 
member are incomplete because of damage to the records as a result of 
the 1973 fire at the National Personnel Records Center in St. Louis, 
Missouri, or any subsequent incident while the records were in the 
possession of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Time for Completion.--The Secretary of Defense shall complete 
development of the guidelines not later than one year after the date of 
the enactment of this Act.
    SEC. 529. STRATEGIC PLAN FOR DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION.
    (a) Plan Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall design and 
implement a five-year strategic plan for diversity and inclusion in the 
Department of Defense.
    (b) Elements.--The strategic plan under this section--
        (1) shall incorporate existing efforts to promote diversity and 
    inclusion within the Department; and
        (2) may not conflict with the objectives of the 2018 National 
    Military Strategy.
    (c) Deadline.--The Secretary shall implement the strategic plan 
under this section not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    SEC. 530. STUDY REGARDING SCREENING INDIVIDUALS WHO SEEK TO ENLIST 
      IN THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Study.--The Secretary of Defense shall study the feasibility 
of, in background investigations and security and suitability 
screenings of individuals who seek to enlist in the Armed Forces--
        (1) screening for extremist and gang-related activity; and
        (2) using the following resources of the Federal Bureau of 
    Investigation:
            (A) The Tattoo and Graffiti Identification Program.
            (B) The National Gang Intelligence Center.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit an unclassified 
report in writing to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
House of Representatives containing conclusions of the Secretary 
regarding the study under subsection (a).
SEC. 530A. FEASIBILITY STUDY REGARDING NOTIFICATION TO SECRETARY OF 
HOMELAND SECURITY OF HONORABLE DISCHARGES OF NON-CITIZENS.
    (a) Study Required.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with 
the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall study the feasibility of 
providing the Secretary of Homeland Security with a copy of the 
Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD Form 214) or 
National Guard Report of Separation and Record of Service (NGB-22) for 
each individual who is not a citizen of the United States who is 
honorably discharged from the Armed Forces so the Secretary of Homeland 
Security may note such discharge in an I-213 Record of Deportable/
Inadmissible Alien for that individual.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives 
a report regarding the results of the study under this section.
SEC. 530B. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING ACCESSION PHYSICALS.
    It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Defense should 
explore alternatives to centralized accession physicals at Military 
Entrance Processing Stations, including conducting physicals through 
community health care providers, in order to reduce transportation 
costs, increase efficiency in processing times, and free recruiters to 
focus on the core of the recruiting mission.

                      Subtitle D--Military Justice

    SEC. 531. EXPANSION OF PRE-REFERRAL MATTERS REVIEWABLE BY MILITARY 
      JUDGES AND MILITARY MAGISTRATES IN THE INTEREST OF EFFICIENCY IN 
      MILITARY JUSTICE.
    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 830a of title 10, United 
States Code (article 30a of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is 
amended by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting the following 
new paragraphs:
    ``(1) The President shall prescribe regulations for matters 
relating to proceedings conducted before referral of charges and 
specifications to court-martial for trial, including the following:
        ``(A) Pre-referral investigative subpoenas.
        ``(B) Pre-referral warrants or orders for electronic 
    communications.
        ``(C) Pre-referral matters referred by an appellate court.
        ``(D) Pre-referral matters under subsection (c) or (e) of 
    section 806b of this title (article 6b).
        ``(E) Pre-referral matters relating to the following:
            ``(i) Pre-trial confinement of an accused.
            ``(ii) The mental capacity or mental responsibility of an 
        accused.
            ``(iii) A request for an individual military counsel.
    ``(2) In addition to the matters specified in paragraph (1), the 
regulations prescribed under that paragraph shall--
        ``(A) set forth the matters that a military judge may rule upon 
    in such proceedings;
        ``(B) include procedures for the review of such rulings;
        ``(C) include appropriate limitations to ensure that 
    proceedings under this section extend only to matters that would be 
    subject to consideration by a military judge in a general or 
    special court-martial; and
        ``(D) provide such limitations on the relief that may be 
    ordered under this section as the President considers 
    appropriate.''.
    (b) Conforming and Clerical Amendments.--
        (1) Heading amendment.--The heading of such section is amended 
    to read as follows:
``Sec. 830a. Art 30a. Proceedings conducted before referral''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of subchapter VI of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code (the 
    Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by striking the item 
    relating to section 830a (article 30a) and inserting the following 
    new item:

``830a. 30a. Proceedings conducted before referral.''.
    SEC. 532. COMMAND INFLUENCE.
    (a) In General.--Section 837 of title 10, United States Code 
(article 37 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended--
        (1) by striking ``Unlawfully influencing action of court'' and 
    inserting ``Command influence'';
        (2) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
    ``(a)(1) No court-martial convening authority, nor any other 
commanding officer, may censure, reprimand, or admonish the court or 
any member, military judge, or counsel thereof, with respect to the 
findings or sentence adjudged by the court, or with respect to any 
other exercise of its or his functions in the conduct of the 
proceeding.
    ``(2) No court-martial convening authority, nor any other 
commanding officer, may deter or attempt to deter a potential witness 
from participating in the investigatory process or testifying at a 
court-martial. The denial of a request to travel at government expense 
or refusal to make a witness available shall not by itself constitute 
unlawful command influence.
    ``(3) No person subject to this chapter may attempt to coerce or, 
by any unauthorized means, attempt to influence the action of a court-
martial or any other military tribunal or any member thereof, in 
reaching the findings or sentence in any case, or the action of any 
convening, approving, or reviewing authority or preliminary hearing 
officer with respect to such acts taken pursuant to this chapter as 
prescribed by the President.
    ``(4) Conduct that does not constitute a violation of paragraphs 
(1) through (3) may include, for example--
        ``(A) general instructional or informational courses in 
    military justice if such courses are designed solely for the 
    purpose of instructing persons on the substantive and procedural 
    aspects of courts-martial;
        ``(B) statements regarding criminal activity or a particular 
    criminal offense that do not advocate a particular disposition, or 
    a particular court-martial finding or sentence, or do not relate to 
    a particular accused; or
        ``(C) statements and instructions given in open court by the 
    military judge or counsel.
    ``(5)(A) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) through (3), but subject to 
subparagraph (B)--
        ``(i) a superior convening authority or officer may generally 
    discuss matters to consider regarding the disposition of alleged 
    violations of this chapter with a subordinate convening authority 
    or officer; and
        ``(ii) a subordinate convening authority or officer may seek 
    advice from a superior convening authority or officer regarding the 
    disposition of an alleged offense under this chapter.
    ``(B) No superior convening authority or officer may direct a 
subordinate convening authority or officer to make a particular 
disposition in a specific case or otherwise substitute the discretion 
of such authority or such officer for that of the subordinate convening 
authority or officer.'';
        (3) in subsection (b)--
            (A) by striking ``advanced, in grade'' and inserting 
        ``advanced in grade''; and
            (B) by striking ``accused before a court-martial'' and 
        inserting ``person in a court-martial proceeding''; and
        (4) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(c) No finding or sentence of a court-martial may be held 
incorrect on the ground of a violation of this section unless the 
violation materially prejudices the substantial rights of the accused.
    ``(d)(1) A superior convening authority or commanding officer may 
withhold the authority of a subordinate convening authority or officer 
to dispose of offenses in individual cases, types of cases, or 
generally.
    ``(2) Except as provided in paragraph (1) or as otherwise 
authorized by this chapter, a superior convening authority or 
commanding officer may not limit the discretion of a subordinate 
convening authority or officer to act with respect to a case for which 
the subordinate convening authority or officer has authority to dispose 
of the offenses.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
subchapter VII of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code (the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by striking the item 
relating to section 837 (article 37) and inserting the following new 
item:

``837. Art. 37. Command influence.''.

    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) 
shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act and shall 
apply with respect to violations of section 837 of title 10, United 
States Code (article 37 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), 
committed on or after such date.
    SEC. 533. STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS FOR CERTAIN OFFENSES.
    (a) In General.--Section 843 of title 10, United States Code 
(article 43 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``maiming of a child, 
    kidnapping of a child,'' after ``sexual assault of a child,''; and
        (2) in subsection (b)(2)(B)--
            (A) by striking clauses (ii) and (iv); and
            (B) by redesignating clause (iii) as clause (ii).
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act and shall apply 
with respect to the prosecution of offenses committed before, on, or 
after the date of the enactment of this Act if the applicable 
limitation period has not yet expired.
    SEC. 534. PUBLIC ACCESS TO DOCKETS, FILINGS, AND COURT RECORDS OF 
      COURTS-MARTIAL OR OTHER RECORDS OF TRIAL OF THE MILITARY JUSTICE 
      SYSTEM.
    (a) In General.--Section 940a of title 10, United States Code 
(article 140a of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended--
        (1) by striking ``The Secretary of Defense'' and inserting 
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with 
    the Secretary of Homeland Security,'';
        (2) in subsection (a), as designated by paragraph (1)--
            (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting 
        ``(including with respect to the Coast Guard)'' after 
        ``military justice system''; and
            (B) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``public'' before 
        ``access to docket information''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(b) Protection of Certain Personally Identifiable Information.--
Records of trial, docket information, filings, and other records made 
publicly accessible in accordance with the uniform standards and 
criteria for conduct established by the Secretary under subsection (a) 
shall restrict access to personally identifiable information of minors 
and victims of crime (including victims of sexual assault and domestic 
violence), as practicable to the extent such information is restricted 
in electronic filing systems of Federal and State courts.
    ``(c) Inapplicability to Certain Dockets and Records.--Nothing in 
this section shall be construed to provide public access to docket 
information, filings, or records that are classified, subject to a 
judicial protective order, or ordered sealed.''.
    (b) Existing Standards and Criteria.--The Secretary of Homeland 
Security shall apply to the Coast Guard the standards and criteria for 
conduct established by the Secretary of Defense under section 940a of 
title 10, United States Code (article 140a of the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice), as in effect on the day before the date of the 
enactment of this Act, until such time as the Secretary of Defense, in 
consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, prescribes 
revised standards and criteria for conduct under such section that 
implement the amendments made by subsection (a) of this section.
    SEC. 535. EXTENSION OF DEFENSE ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON INVESTIGATION, 
      PROSECUTION, AND DEFENSE OF SEXUAL ASSAULT IN THE ARMED FORCES.
    Section 546(f)(1) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (10 U.S.C. 1561 
note) is amended by striking ``five'' and inserting ``10''.
    SEC. 536. AUTHORITY FOR RETURN OF PERSONAL PROPERTY TO VICTIMS OF 
      SEXUAL ASSAULT WHO FILE A RESTRICTED REPORT BEFORE CONCLUSION OF 
      RELATED PROCEEDINGS.
    Section 586 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2012 (10 U.S.C. 1561 note) is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (e);
        (2) in subsection (e), as so redesignated, in the subsection 
    heading, by inserting ``in Unrestricted Reporting Cases'' after 
    ``Proceedings''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Return of Personal Property in Restricted Reporting Cases.--
(1) The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe procedures under which a 
victim who files a restricted report on an incident of sexual assault 
may request, at any time, the return of any personal property of the 
victim obtained as part of the sexual assault forensic examination.
    ``(2) The procedures shall ensure that--
        ``(A) a request of a victim under paragraph (1) may be made on 
    a confidential basis and without affecting the restricted nature of 
    the restricted report; and
        ``(B) at the time of the filing of the restricted report, a 
    Sexual Assault Response Coordinator or Sexual Assault Prevention 
    and Response Victim Advocate--
            ``(i) informs the victim that the victim may request the 
        return of personal property as described in paragraph (1); and
            ``(ii) advises the victim that such a request for the 
        return of personal property may negatively impact a subsequent 
        case adjudication, if the victim later decides to convert the 
        restricted report to an unrestricted report.
    ``(3) Except with respect to personal property returned to a victim 
under this subsection, nothing in this subsection shall affect the 
requirement to retain a sexual assault forensic examination (SAFE) kit 
for the period specified in subsection (c)(4)(A).''.
    SEC. 537. GUIDELINES ON SENTENCES FOR OFFENSES COMMITTED UNDER THE 
      UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY JUSTICE.
    (a) Development of Guidelines.--Not later than the date specified 
in subsection (d), the Secretary of Defense shall develop nonbinding 
guidelines on sentences for offenses under chapter 47 of title 10, 
United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice). The 
guidelines shall provide the sentencing authority with a suggested 
range of punishments, including suggested ranges of confinement, that 
will generally be appropriate for a violation of each offense under 
such chapter.
    (b) Sentencing Data.--In developing the guidelines for sentences 
under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall take into account 
the sentencing data collected by the Military Justice Review Panel 
pursuant to section 946(f)(2) of title 10, United States Code (article 
146(f)(2) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice).
    (c) Submittal to Congress.--Not later than the date specified in 
subsection (d), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees 
on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives--
        (1) the guidelines for sentences developed under subsection 
    (a); and
        (2) an assessment of the feasibility and advisability of 
    implementing such guidelines in panel sentencing cases.
    (d) Date Specified.--The date specified in this subsection is the 
date that is not later than one year after the date on the which the 
first report of the Military Justice Review Panel is submitted to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives pursuant to section 946(f)(5) of title 10, United 
States Code (article 146(f)(5) of the Uniform Code of Military 
Justice).
    SEC. 538. NOTIFICATION OF SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AND DOCUMENTATION OF 
      PREFERENCE FOR PROSECUTION JURISDICTION FOR VICTIMS OF SEXUAL 
      ASSAULT.
    (a) Notification to Victims of Events in Military Justice 
Process.--
        (1) Notification required.--A member of the Armed Forces who is 
    the victim of an alleged sexual assault by another member of the 
    Armed Forces shall receive notification of each significant event 
    in the military justice process that relates to the investigation, 
    prosecution, and confinement of such other member for such assault.
        (2) Documentation.--Appropriate documentation of each 
    notification made pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be created and 
    maintained in an appropriate system of records of the military 
    department concerned.
    (b) Documentation of Victim's Preference for Prosecution 
Jurisdiction.--In the case of a member of the Armed Forces who is the 
victim of an alleged sexual assault committed by another member of the 
Armed Forces who is subject to prosecution for such offense both by 
court-martial under chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code (the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), and by a civilian court under 
Federal or State law, appropriate documentation of the preference, if 
any, of such victim for prosecution of such offense by court-martial or 
by a civilian court as provided for by Rule for Courts-Martial 306(e) 
(as set forth in the Manual for Courts-Martial, 2019 edition, or any 
successor rule), shall be created and maintained in an appropriate 
system of records of the military department concerned.
    (c) Regulations.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall prescribe 
regulations implementing this section.
    SEC. 539. INCREASE IN NUMBER OF DIGITAL FORENSIC EXAMINERS FOR 
      CERTAIN MILITARY CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIVE ORGANIZATIONS.
    (a) In General.--Each Secretary of a military department shall take 
appropriate actions to increase the number of digital forensic 
examiners in each military criminal investigative organization 
specified in subsection (b) under the jurisdiction of such Secretary by 
not fewer than 10 from the authorized number of such examiners for such 
organization as of September 30, 2019.
    (b) Military Criminal Investigative Organizations.--The military 
criminal investigative organizations specified in this subsection are 
the following:
        (1) The Army Criminal Investigation Command.
        (2) The Naval Criminal Investigative Service.
        (3) The Air Force Office of Special Investigations.
    (c) Funding.--Funds for additional digital forensic examiners as 
required by subsection (a) for fiscal year 2020, including for 
compensation, initial training, and equipment, shall be derived from 
amounts authorized to be appropriated for that fiscal year for the 
Armed Force concerned for operation and maintenance.
    SEC. 540. INCREASE IN INVESTIGATIVE PERSONNEL AND VICTIM WITNESS 
      ASSISTANCE PROGRAM LIAISONS.
    (a) Military Criminal Investigative Services.--Not later than one 
year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of each 
military department shall increase the number of personnel assigned to 
the military criminal investigative services of the department with the 
goal of ensuring, to the extent practicable, that the investigation of 
any sex-related offense is completed not later than six months after 
the date on which the investigation is initiated. An investigation 
shall be considered completed for purposes of the preceding sentence 
when the active phase of the investigation is sufficiently complete to 
enable the appropriate authority to reach a decision with respect to 
the disposition of charges for the sex-related offense.
    (b)  Victim Witness Assistance Program Liaisons.--Not later than 
one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
each military department shall increase the number of personnel serving 
as Victim Witness Assistance Program liaisons to address personnel 
shortages in the Victim Witness Assistance Program.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, 
enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, 
its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or 
agents, or any other person.
SEC. 540A. TRAINING FOR SEXUAL ASSAULT INITIAL DISPOSITION AUTHORITIES 
ON EXERCISE OF DISPOSITION AUTHORITY FOR SEXUAL ASSAULT AND COLLATERAL 
OFFENSES.
    (a) In General.--The training for sexual assault initial 
disposition authorities on the exercise of disposition authority under 
chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice), shall include comprehensive training on the exercise 
of disposition authority with respect to cases for which disposition 
authority is withheld to such authorities pursuant to the memorandum 
described in subsection (b) for the purpose of promoting confidence and 
trust in the military justice process with respect to such cases.
    (b) Memorandum Described.--The memorandum described in this 
subsection is the memorandum of the Secretary of Defense titled 
``Withholding Initial Disposition Authority Under the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice in Certain Sexual Assault Cases'' and dated April 20, 
2012, or any successor memorandum.
SEC. 540B. TRAINING FOR COMMANDERS IN THE ARMED FORCES ON THEIR ROLE IN 
ALL STAGES OF MILITARY JUSTICE IN CONNECTION WITH SEXUAL ASSAULT.
    (a) In General.--The training provided commanders in the Armed 
Forces shall include comprehensive training on the role of commanders 
in all stages of military justice in connection with sexual assaults by 
members of the Armed Forces.
    (b) Elements To Be Covered.--The training provided pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall include training on the following:
        (1) The role of commanders in each stage of the military 
    justice process in connection with sexual assault committed by a 
    member of the Armed Forces, including investigation and 
    prosecution.
        (2) The role of commanders in assuring that victims of sexual 
    assault described in paragraph (1) are informed of, and have the 
    opportunity to obtain, assistance available for victims of sexual 
    assault by law.
        (3) The role of commanders in assuring that victims of sexual 
    assault described in paragraph (1) are afforded the rights and 
    protections available to victims by law.
        (4) The role of commanders in preventing retaliation against 
    victims, their family members, witnesses, first responders, and 
    bystanders for their their complaints, statements, testimony, and 
    status in connection with sexual assault described in paragraph 
    (1), including the role of commanders in ensuring that subordinates 
    in the command are aware of their responsibilities in preventing 
    such retaliation.
        (5) The role of commanders in establishing and maintaining a 
    healthy command climate in connection with reporting on sexual 
    assault described in paragraph (1), and in the response of the 
    commander, subordinates in the command, and other personnel in the 
    command to such sexual assault, such reporting, and the military 
    justice process in connection with such sexual assault.
        (6) Any other matters on the role of commanders in connection 
    with sexual assault described in paragraph (1) that the Secretary 
    of Defense considers appropriate for purposes of this section.
    (c) Incorporation of Best Practices.--
        (1) In general.--The training provided pursuant to subsection 
    (a) shall incorporate best practices on all matters covered by the 
    training.
        (2) Identification of best practices.--The Secretaries of the 
    military departments shall, acting through the training and 
    doctrine commands of the Armed Forces, undertake from time to time 
    surveys and other reviews of the matters covered by the training 
    provided pursuant to subsection (a) in order to identify and 
    incorporate into such training the most current practicable best 
    practices on such matters.
    (d) Uniformity.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the 
training provided pursuant to subsection (a) is, to the extent 
practicable, uniform across the Armed Forces.
SEC. 540C. TIMELY DISPOSITION OF NONPROSECUTABLE SEX-RELATED OFFENSES.
    (a) Policy Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall develop and 
implement a policy to ensure the timely disposition of nonprosecutable 
sex-related offenses.
    (b) Nonprosecutable Sex-related Offense Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``nonprosecutable sex-related offense'' means an alleged sex-
related offense (as that term is defined in section 1044e(g) of title 
10, United States Code) that a court-martial convening authority has 
declined to refer for trial by a general or special court-martial under 
chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice), due to a determination that there is insufficient 
evidence to support prosecution of the sex-related offense.
SEC. 540D. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE-WIDE POLICY AND MILITARY DEPARTMENT-
SPECIFIC PROGRAMS ON REINVIGORATION OF THE PREVENTION OF SEXUAL ASSAULT 
INVOLVING MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Policy Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall develop and issue 
a comprehensive policy for the Department of Defense to reinvigorate 
the prevention of sexual assault involving members of the Armed Forces.
    (b) Policy Elements.--
        (1) In general.--The policy required by subsection (a) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) Education and training for members of the Armed Forces 
        on the prevention of sexual assault.
            (B) Elements for programs designed to encourage and promote 
        healthy relationships among members of the Armed Forces.
            (C) Elements for programs designed to empower and enhance 
        the role of non-commissioned officers in the prevention of 
        sexual assault.
            (D) Elements for programs to foster social courage among 
        members of the Armed Forces to encourage and promote 
        intervention in situations in order to prevent sexual assault.
            (E) Processes and mechanisms designed to address behaviors 
        among members of the Armed Forces that are included in the 
        continuum of harm that frequently results in sexual assault.
            (F) Elements for programs designed to address alcohol 
        abuse, including binge drinking, among members of the Armed 
        Forces.
            (G) Such other elements, processes, mechanisms, and other 
        matters as the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate.
        (2) Continuum of harm resulting in sexual assault.--For 
    purposes of paragraph (1)(E), the continuum of harm that frequently 
    results in sexual assault includes hazing, sexual harassment, and 
    related behaviors (including language choices, off-hand statements, 
    jokes, and unconscious attitudes or biases) that create a 
    permissive climate for sexual assault.
    (c) Programs Required.--Not later than 180 days after the issuance 
of the policy required by subsection (a), each Secretary of a military 
department shall develop and implement for each Armed Force under the 
jurisdiction of such Secretary a program to reinvigorate the prevention 
of sexual assaults involving members of the Armed Forces. Each program 
shall include the elements, processes, mechanisms, and other matters 
developed by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to subsection (a) 
tailored to the requirements and circumstances of the Armed Force or 
Armed Forces concerned.
SEC. 540E. RECOMMENDATIONS ON SEPARATE PUNITIVE ARTICLE IN THE UNIFORM 
CODE OF MILITARY JUSTICE ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
containing such recommendations as the Secretary considers appropriate 
with respect to the establishment of a separate punitive article in 
chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice), on sexual harassment.
SEC. 540F. REPORT ON MILITARY JUSTICE SYSTEM INVOLVING ALTERNATIVE 
AUTHORITY FOR DETERMINING WHETHER TO PREFER OR REFER CHANGES FOR FELONY 
OFFENSES UNDER THE UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY JUSTICE.
    (a) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 300 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
    Representatives a report setting forth the results of a study, 
    conducted for purposes of the report, on the feasibility and 
    advisability of an alternative military justice system in which 
    determinations as to whether to prefer or refer charges for trial 
    by court-martial for any offense specified in paragraph (2) is made 
    by a judge advocate in grade O-6 or higher who has significant 
    experience in criminal litigation and is outside of the chain of 
    command of the member subject to the charges rather than by a 
    commanding officer of the member who is in the chain of command of 
    the member.
        (2) Specified offense.--An offense specified in this paragraph 
    is any offense under chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code 
    (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), for which the maximum 
    punishment authorized includes confinement for more than one year.
    (b) Elements.--The study required for purposes of the report under 
subsection (a) shall address the following:
        (1) Relevant procedural, legal, and policy implications and 
    considerations of the alternative military justice system described 
    in subsection (a).
        (2) An analysis of the following in connection with the 
    implementation and maintenance of the alternative military justice 
    system:
            (A) Legal personnel requirements.
            (B) Changes in force structure.
            (C) Amendments to law.
            (D) Impacts on the timeliness and efficiency of legal 
        processes and court-martial adjudications.
            (E) Potential legal challenges to the system.
            (F) Potential changes in prosecution and conviction rates.
            (G) Potential impacts on the preservation of good order and 
        discipline, including the ability of a commander to carry out 
        nonjudicial punishment and other administrative actions.
            (H) Such other considerations as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
        (3) A comparative analysis of the military justice systems of 
    relevant foreign allies with the current military justice system of 
    the United States and the alternative military justice system, 
    including whether or not approaches of the military justice systems 
    of such allies to determinations described in subsection (a) are 
    appropriate for the military justice system of the United States.
        (4) An assessment of the feasibility and advisability of 
    conducting a pilot program to assess the feasibility and 
    advisability of the alternative military justice system, and, if 
    the pilot program is determined to be feasible and advisable--
            (A) an analysis of potential legal issues in connection 
        with the pilot program, including potential issues for appeals; 
        and
            (B) recommendations on the following:
                (i) The populations to be subject to the pilot program.
                (ii) The duration of the pilot program.
                (iii) Metrics to measure the effectiveness of the pilot 
            program.
                (iv) The resources to be used to conduct the pilot 
            program.
SEC. 540G. REPORT ON STANDARDIZATION AMONG THE MILITARY DEPARTMENTS IN 
COLLECTION AND PRESENTATION OF INFORMATION ON MATTERS WITHIN THE 
MILITARY JUSTICE SYSTEM.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the 
Secretaries of the military departments, submit to the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
setting forth the following:
        (1) A plan for actions to provide for standardization, to the 
    extent practicable, among the military departments in the 
    collection and presentation of information on matters within their 
    military justice systems, including information collected and 
    maintained for purposes of section 940a of title 10, United States 
    Code (article 140a of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), and 
    such other information as the Secretary considers appropriate.
        (2) An assessment of the feasibility and advisability of 
    establishing and maintaining a single, Department of Defense-wide 
    data management system for the standardized collection and 
    presentation of information described in paragraph (1).
SEC. 540H. REPORT ON EXPANSION OF AIR FORCE SAFE TO REPORT POLICY 
ACROSS THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Report.--Not late than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the 
Secretaries of the military departments and the Secretary of Homeland 
Security, submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
the House of Representatives a report setting forth an assessment of 
the feasibility and advisability of expanding the applicability of the 
safe to report policy described in subsection (b) so that the policy 
applies across the Armed Forces.
    (b) Safe to Report Policy.--The safe to report policy described in 
this subsection is the policy, currently applicable in the Air Force 
alone, under which a member of the Armed Forces who is the victim of an 
alleged sexual assault committed by another member of the Armed Forces, 
but who may have committed minor collateral misconduct at or about the 
time of such alleged sexual assault, or whose minor collateral 
misconduct at or about such time is discovered only as a result of the 
investigation into such alleged sexual assault, may report such alleged 
sexual assault to proper authorities without fear or receipt of 
discipline in connection with such minor collateral misconduct.
SEC. 540I. ASSESSMENT OF RACIAL, ETHNIC, AND GENDER DISPARITIES IN THE 
MILITARY JUSTICE SYSTEM.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide for the 
carrying out of the activities described in subsections (b) and (c) in 
order to improve the ability of the Department of Defense to detect and 
address racial, ethnic, and gender disparities in the military justice 
system.
    (b) Secretary of Defense and Related Activities.--The activities 
described in this subsection are the following, to be commenced or 
carried out (as applicable) by not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act:
        (1) For each court-martial conducted by an Armed Force after 
    the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
    shall require the head of the Armed Force concerned--
            (A) to record the race, ethnicity, and gender of the victim 
        and the accused, and such other demographic information about 
        the victim and the accused as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate;
            (B) to include data based on the information described in 
        subparagraph (A) in the annual military justice reports of the 
        Armed Force.
        (2) The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the 
    Secretaries of the military departments and the Secretary of 
    Homeland Security, shall issue guidance that--
            (A) establishes criteria to determine when data indicating 
        possible racial, ethnic, or gender disparities in the military 
        justice process should be further reviewed; and
            (B) describes how such a review should be conducted.
        (3) The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the 
    Secretaries of the military departments and the Secretary of 
    Homeland Security, shall--
            (A) conduct an evaluation to identify the causes of any 
        racial, ethnic, or gender disparities identified in the 
        military justice system;
            (B) take steps to address the causes of any such 
        disparities, as appropriate.
    (c) DAC-IPAD Activities.--
        (1) In general.--The activities described in this subsection 
    are the following, to be conducted by the independent committee 
    DAC-IPAD:
            (A) A review and assessment, by fiscal year, of the race 
        and ethnicity of members of the Armed Forces accused of a 
        penetrative sexual assault offense or contact sexual assault 
        offense in an unrestricted report made pursuant to Department 
        of Defense Instruction 6495.02, including an unrestricted 
        report involving a spouse or intimate partner, in all cases 
        completed in each fiscal year assessed.
            (B) A review and assessment, by fiscal year, of the race 
        and ethnicity of members of the Armed Forces against whom 
        charges were preferred pursuant to Rule for Courts-Martial 307 
        for a penetrative sexual assault offense or contact sexual 
        assault offense in all cases completed in each fiscal year 
        assessed.
            (C) A review and assessment, by fiscal year, of the race 
        and ethnicity of members of the Armed Forces who were convicted 
        of a penetrative sexual assault offense or contact sexual 
        assault offense in all cases completed in each fiscal year 
        assessed.
        (2) Information from federal agencies.--
            (A) In general.--Upon request by the chair of the 
        committee, a department or agency of the Federal Government 
        shall provide information that the committee considers 
        necessary to conduct reviews and assessments required by 
        paragraph (1), including military criminal investigation files, 
        charge sheets, records of trial, and personnel records.
            (B) Handling, storage, and return.--The committee shall 
        handle and store all records received and reviewed under this 
        subsection in accordance with applicable privacy laws and 
        Department of Defense policy, and shall return all records so 
        received in a timely manner.
        (3) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the committee shall submit to the Secretary 
    of Defense, and to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
    and the House of Representatives, a report setting forth the 
    results of the reviews and assessments required by paragraph (1). 
    The report shall include such recommendations for legislative or 
    administrative action as the committee considers appropriate in 
    light of such results.
        (4) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            (A) The term ``independent committee DAC-IPAD'' means the 
        independent committee established by the Secretary of Defense 
        under section 546 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' 
        McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
        (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3374), commonly known as the 
        ``DAC-IPAD''.
            (B) The term ``case'' means an unrestricted report of any 
        penetrative sexual assault offense or contact sexual assault 
        offense made against a member of the Armed Forces pursuant to 
        Department of Defense Instruction 6495.02, including any 
        unrestricted report involving a spouses or intimate partner for 
        which an investigation has been opened by a criminal 
        investigative organization.
            (C) The term ``completed'', with respect to a case, means 
        that the case was tried to verdict, dismissed without further 
        action, or dismissed and then resolved by non-judicial or 
        administrative proceedings.
            (D) The term ``contact sexual assault offense'' means 
        aggravated sexual contact, abusive sexual contact, wrongful 
        sexual contact, and attempts to commit such offenses under the 
        Uniform Code of Military Justice.
            (E) The term ``penetrative sexual assault offense'' means 
        rape, aggravated sexual assault, sexual assault, forcible 
        sodomy, and attempts to commit such offenses under the Uniform 
        Code of Military Justice.
SEC. 540J. PILOT PROGRAMS ON DEFENSE INVESTIGATORS IN THE MILITARY 
JUSTICE SYSTEM.
    (a) In General.--Each Secretary of a military department shall 
carry out a pilot program on defense investigators within the military 
justice system under the jurisdiction of such Secretary in order to do 
the following:
        (1) Determine whether the presence of defense investigators 
    within such military justice system will--
            (A) make such military justice system more effective in 
        providing an effective defense for the accused; and
            (B) make such military justice system more fair and 
        efficient.
        (2) Otherwise assess the feasibility and advisability of 
    defense investigators as an element of such military justice 
    system.
    (b) Elements.--
        (1) Interview of victim.--A defense investigator may question a 
    victim under a pilot program only upon a request made through the 
    Special Victims' Counsel or other counsel if the victim does not 
    have such counsel.
        (2) Uniformity across military justice systems.--The Secretary 
    of Defense shall ensure that the personnel and activities of 
    defense investigators under the pilot programs are, to the extent 
    practicable, uniform across the military justice systems of the 
    military departments.
    (c) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than three years after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in 
    consultation with the Secretaries of the military departments, 
    submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
    House of Representatives a report on the pilot programs under 
    subsection (a).
        (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) A description of each pilot program, including the 
        personnel and activities of defense investigators under such 
        pilot program.
            (B) An assessment of the feasibility and advisability of 
        establishing and maintaining defense investigators as an 
        element of the military justice systems of the military 
        departments.
            (C) If the assessment under subparagraph (B) is that the 
        establishment and maintenance of defense investigators as an 
        element of the military justice systems of the military 
        departments is feasible and advisable, such recommendations for 
        legislative and administrative action as the Secretary of 
        Defense considers appropriate to establish and maintain defense 
        investigators as an element of the military justice systems.
            (D) Any other matters the Secretary of Defense considers 
        appropriate.
SEC. 540K. REPORT ON PRESERVATION OF RECOURSE TO RESTRICTED REPORT ON 
SEXUAL ASSAULT FOR VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT FOLLOWING CERTAIN VICTIM 
OR THIRD-PARTY COMMUNICATIONS.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report making findings and recommendations on the 
feasibility and advisability of a policy for the Department of Defense 
that would permit a victim of a sexual assault, that is or may be 
investigated as a result of a communication described in subsection 
(b), which victim is a member of the Armed Forces or an adult dependent 
of a member of the Armed Forces, to have the reporting on the sexual 
assault be treated as a restricted report without regard to the party 
initiating or receiving such communication.
    (b) Communications.--A communication described in this subsection 
is a communication reporting a sexual assault as follows:
        (1) By the victim to a member of the Armed Forces, whether a 
    commissioned officer or a noncommissioned officer, in the chain of 
    command of the victim or the victim's military sponsor.
        (2) By the victim to military law enforcement personnel or 
    personnel of a military criminal investigative organization (MCIO).
        (3) By any individual other than victim.
    (c) Scope of Findings and Recommendations.--The report required by 
subsection (a) may include recommendations for new provisions of 
statute or regulations, or modification of current statute or 
regulations, that may be required to put into effect the findings and 
recommendations described in subsection (a).
    (d) Consultation.--In preparing the report required by subsection 
(a), the Secretary shall consult with the Defense Advisory Committee on 
Investigation, Prosecution, and Defense of Sexual Assault in the Armed 
Forces (DAC-IPAD) under section 546 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
(10 U.S.C. 1561 note).
SEC. 540L. REPORT ON ESTABLISHMENT OF GUARDIAN AD LITEM PROGRAM FOR 
CERTAIN MILITARY DEPENDENTS WHO ARE A VICTIM OR WITNESS OF AN OFFENSE 
UNDER THE UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY JUSTICE INVOLVING ABUSE OR 
EXPLOITATION.
    (a) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
    Representatives a report setting forth an assessment of the 
    feasibility and advisability of establishing a guardian ad litem 
    program for military dependents described in paragraph (2) who are 
    a victim or witness of an offense under chapter 47 of title 10, 
    United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), that 
    involves an element of abuse or exploitation in order to protect 
    the best interests of such dependents in a court-martial of such 
    offense.
        (2) Covered dependents.--The military dependents described in 
    this paragraph are as follows:
            (A) Military dependents under 12 years of age.
            (B) Military dependents who lack mental or other capacity.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) An assessment of the feasibility and advisability of 
    establishing a guardian ad litem program as described in subsection 
    (a).
        (2) If establishment of the guardian ad litem program is 
    considered feasible and advisable, the following:
            (A) A description of administrative requirements in 
        connection with the program, including the following:
                (i) Any memoranda of understanding between the 
            Department of Defense and State and local authorities 
            required for purposes of the program.
                (ii) The personnel, funding, and other resources 
            required for purposes of the program.
            (B) Best practices for the program (as determined in 
        consultation with appropriate civilian experts on child 
        advocacy).
            (C) Such recommendations for legislative and administration 
        action to implement the program as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
SEC. 540M. COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES REPORT ON 
IMPLEMENTATION BY THE ARMED FORCES OF RECENT STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS ON 
SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE IN THE MILITARY.
    (a) Report Required.--The Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives a report, in writing, on a study, conducted by 
the Comptroller General for purposes of the report, on the 
implementation by the Armed Forces of statutory requirements on sexual 
assault prevention and response in the military in the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (Public Law 108-136) and each 
succeeding national defense authorization Act through the John S. 
McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public 
Law 115-232).
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) A list and citation of each statutory requirement (whether 
    codified or uncodified) on sexual assault prevention and response 
    in the military in each national defense authorization Act 
    specified in paragraph (1), including--
            (A) whether such statutory requirement is still in force; 
        and
            (B) if such statutory requirement is no longer in force, 
        the date of the repeal or expiration of such requirement.
        (2) For each statutory requirement listed pursuant to paragraph 
    (1), the following:
            (A) An assessment of the extent to which such requirement 
        was implemented, or is currently being implemented, as 
        applicable, by each Armed Force to which such requirement 
        applied or applies.
            (B) A description and assessment of the actions taken by 
        each of the Department of Defense, the military department 
        concerned, and the Armed Force concerned to assess and 
        determine the effectiveness of actions taken pursuant to such 
        requirement in meeting its intended objective.
        (3) Any other matters in connection with the statutory 
    requirements specified in subsection (a), and the implementation of 
    such requirements by the Armed Forces, that the Comptroller General 
    considers appropriate.
    (c) Briefings.--Not later than May 1, 2020, the Comptroller General 
shall provide to the committees referred to in subsection (a) one or 
more briefings on the status of the study required by subsection (a), 
including any preliminary findings and recommendations of the 
Comptroller General as a result of the study as of the date of such 
briefing.
SEC. 540N. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE PORT CHICAGO 50.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the American people should recognize the role of racial 
    bias during the era in which the prosecution and convictions of the 
    Port Chicago 50 took place for mutiny following the deadliest home-
    front disaster in World War II, in which 320 were killed on July 
    17, 1944, during a munitions explosion; and
        (2) in light of the well-documented challenges associated with 
    uniformed service by African Americans during this era, the 
    Secretary of the Navy should, as appropriate, recommend executive 
    action in favor of the 49 remaining Sailors with general court-
    martial convictions and the 207 remaining Sailors with summary 
    court-martial convictions.

                    Subtitle E--Other Legal Matters

    SEC. 541. IMPROVEMENT OF CERTAIN SPECIAL VICTIMS' COUNSEL 
      AUTHORITIES.
    (a) Enhancement of Legal Consultation and Assistance in Connection 
With Potential Victim Benefits.--Paragraph (8)(D) of subsection (b) of 
section 1044e of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking 
``and other'' and inserting ``, section 1408(h) of this title, and 
other''.
    (b) Expansion of Legal Assistance Authorized to Include 
Consultation and Assistance for Retaliation.--Subsection (b) of such 
section is amended further--
        (1) by redesignating paragraph (10) as paragraph (11); and
        (2) by inserting after paragraph (9) the following new 
    paragraph (10):
        ``(10) Legal consultation and assistance in connection with an 
    incident of retaliation, whether such incident occurs before, 
    during, or after the conclusion of any criminal proceedings, 
    including--
            ``(A) in understanding the rights and protections afforded 
        to victims of retaliation;
            ``(B) in the filing of complaints; and
            ``(C) in any resulting military justice proceedings.''.
    (c) Staffing Caseload Levels.--Such section is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (g) and (h) as subsections (h) 
    and (i), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (f) the following new 
    subsection (g):
    ``(g) Staffing Caseload Levels.--Commencing not later than four 
years after the date of the enactment of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, each Secretary concerned shall 
ensure that the number of Special Victims' Counsel serving in each 
military department (and with respect to the Coast Guard) is sufficient 
to ensure that the average caseload of a Special Victims' Counsel does 
not exceed, to the extent practicable, 25 cases any given time.''.
    SEC. 542. AVAILABILITY OF SPECIAL VICTIMS' COUNSEL AT MILITARY 
      INSTALLATIONS.
    (a) Deadline for Availability.--Section 1044e(f) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
    ``(4)(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), if a Special Victims' Counsel 
is not available at a military installation for access by a member of 
the armed forces who requests access to a Special Victims' Counsel, a 
Special Victims' Counsel shall be made available at such installation 
for access by such member by not later than 72 hours after such 
request.
    ``(B) If the Secretary concerned determines that, due to exigent 
circumstances related to military activities, a Special Victims' 
Counsel cannot be made available to a member of the armed forces within 
the time period required by subparagraph (A), the Secretary concerned 
shall ensure that a Special Victims' Counsel is made available to such 
member as soon as is practical under such circumstances.''.
    (b) Report on Civilian Support of SVCs.--Not later than 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, each Secretary of a 
military department shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of 
the Senate and the House of Representatives a report setting forth the 
assessment of such Secretary of the feasibility and advisability of 
establishing and maintaining for each Special Victims' Counsel under 
the jurisdiction of such Secretary one or more civilian positions for 
the purpose of--
        (1) providing support to such Special Victims' Counsel; and
        (2) ensuring continuity and the preservation of institutional 
    knowledge in transitions between the service of individuals as such 
    Special Victims' Counsel.
    SEC. 543. NOTIFICATION OF ISSUANCE OF MILITARY PROTECTIVE ORDER TO 
      CIVILIAN LAW ENFORCEMENT.
    (a) Notification of Issuance.--Section 1567a of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``and any individual 
    involved in the order does not reside on a military installation at 
    any time during the duration of the military protective order, the 
    commander of the military installation shall notify'' and inserting 
    ``, the commander of the unit to which the member is assigned 
    shall, not later than seven days after the date of the issuance of 
    the order, notify'';
        (2) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c);
        (3) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
    subsection (b);
    ``(b) Notification in Event of Transfer.--In the event that a 
member of the armed forces against whom a military protective order is 
issued is transferred to another unit--
        ``(1) not later than the date of the transfer, the commander of 
    the unit from which the member is transferred shall notify the 
    commander of the unit to which the member is transferred of--
            ``(A) the issuance of the protective order; and
            ``(B) the individuals involved in the order; and
        ``(2) not later than seven days after receiving the notice 
    under paragraph (1), the commander of the unit to which the member 
    is transferred shall provide notice of the order to the appropriate 
    civilian authorities in accordance with subsection (a).''; and
        (4) in subsection (c), as so redesignated, by striking 
    ``commander of the military installation'' and inserting 
    ``commander of the unit to which the member is assigned''.
    (b) Annual Report Required.--Not later than March 1, 2021, and each 
year thereafter through 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
the congressional defense committees a report that identifies--
        (1) the number of military protective orders issued in the 
    calendar year preceding the year in which the report is submitted; 
    and
        (2) the number of such orders that were reported to appropriate 
    civilian authorities in accordance with section 1567a(a) of title 
    10, United States Code, in such preceding year.
    SEC. 544. COPYRIGHT PROTECTION FOR CIVILIAN FACULTY OF CERTAIN 
      ACCREDITED INSTITUTIONS.
    Section 105 of title 17, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(a) In general.--'' before ``Copyright''; 
    and
        (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Copyright Protection of Certain of Works.--Subject to 
subsection (c), the covered author of a covered work owns the copyright 
to that covered work.
    ``(c) Use by Federal Government.--The Secretary of Defense may 
direct the covered author of a covered work to provide the Federal 
Government with an irrevocable, royalty-free, world-wide, nonexclusive 
license to reproduce, distribute, perform, or display such covered work 
for purposes of the United States Government.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `covered author' means a civilian member of the 
    faculty of a covered institution.
        ``(2) The term `covered institution' means the following:
            ``(A) National Defense University.
            ``(B) United States Military Academy.
            ``(C) Army War College.
            ``(D) United States Army Command and General Staff College.
            ``(E) United States Naval Academy.
            ``(F) Naval War College.
            ``(G) Naval Post Graduate School.
            ``(H) Marine Corps University.
            ``(I) United States Air Force Academy.
            ``(J) Air University.
            ``(K) Defense Language Institute.
            ``(L) United States Coast Guard Academy.
        ``(3) The term `covered work' means a literary work produced by 
    a covered author in the course of employment at a covered 
    institution for publication by a scholarly press or journal.''.
    SEC. 545. TERMINATION OF LEASES OF PREMISES AND MOTOR VEHICLES OF 
      SERVICEMEMBERS WHO INCUR CATASTROPHIC INJURY OR ILLNESS OR DIE 
      WHILE IN MILITARY SERVICE.
    (a) Catastrophic Injuries and Illnesses.--Subsection (a) of section 
305 of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. 3955), as amended 
by section 301 of the Veterans Benefits and Transition Act of 2018 
(Public Law 115-407), is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
        ``(4) Catastrophic injury or illness of lessee.--The spouse of 
    the lessee on a lease described in subsection (b) may terminate the 
    lease during the one-year period beginning on the date on which the 
    lessee incurs a catastrophic injury or illness (as that term is 
    defined in section 439(g) of title 37, United States Code), if the 
    lessee incurs the catastrophic injury or illness during a period of 
    military service or while performing full-time National Guard duty, 
    active Guard and Reserve duty, or inactive-duty training (as such 
    terms are defined in section 101(d) of title 10, United States 
    Code).''.
    (b) Deaths.--Paragraph (3) of such subsection is amended by 
striking ``in subsection (b)(1)'' and inserting ``in subsection (b)''.
    SEC. 546. MILITARY ORDERS REQUIRED FOR TERMINATION OF LEASES 
      PURSUANT TO THE SERVICEMEMBERS CIVIL RELIEF ACT.
    Section 305(i) of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. 
3955) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``(including orders for 
    separation or retirement)'' after ``official military orders''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) Permanent change of station.--The term `permanent change 
    of station' includes separation or retirement from military 
    service.''.
    SEC. 547. PRESERVATION OF RIGHT TO BRING CLASS ACTION UNDER 
      SERVICEMEMBERS CIVIL RELIEF ACT.
    (a) In General.--Section 802(a) of the Servicemembers Civil Relief 
Act (50 U.S.C. 4042(a)) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'' at the end;
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting ``; and''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) be a representative party on behalf of members of a class 
    or be a member of a class, in accordance with the Federal Rules of 
    Civil Procedure, notwithstanding any previous agreement to the 
    contrary.''.
    (b) Construction.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall not 
be construed to imply that a person aggrieved by a violation of such 
Act did not have a right to bring a civil action as a representative 
party on behalf of members of a class or be a member of a class in a 
civil action before the date of the enactment of this Act.
    SEC. 548. LEGAL COUNSEL FOR VICTIMS OF ALLEGED DOMESTIC VIOLENCE 
      OFFENSES.
    (a) In General.--Not later than December 1, 2020, the Secretary of 
Defense shall carry out a program to provide legal counsel (referred to 
in this section as ``Counsel'') to victims of alleged domestic violence 
offenses who are otherwise eligible for military legal assistance under 
section 1044 of title 10, United States Code.
    (b) Form of Implementation.--The program required under subsection 
(a) may be carried out as part of another program of the Department of 
Defense or through the establishment of a separate program.
    (c) Training and Terms.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that 
Counsel--
        (1) receive specialized training in legal issues commonly 
    associated with alleged domestic violence offenses; and
        (2) to the extent practicable, serve as Counsel for a period of 
    not less than 2 years.
    (d) Attorney-client Relationship.--The relationship between a 
Counsel and a victim in the provision of legal advice and assistance 
shall be the relationship between an attorney and client.
    (e) Paralegal Support.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that 
sufficient trained paralegal support is provided to Counsel under the 
program.
    (f) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
    Representatives a report on the implementation of the program under 
    subsection (a).
        (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) A description and assessment of the manner in which the 
        Department of Defense will implement the program required under 
        subsection (a).
            (B) An explanation of whether the program will be carried 
        out as part of another program of the Department or through the 
        establishment of a separate program.
            (C) A comprehensive description of the additional 
        personnel, resources, and training that will be required to 
        implement the program, including identification of the specific 
        number of additional billets that will be needed to staff the 
        program.
            (D) Recommendations for any modifications to law that may 
        be necessary to effectively and efficiently implement the 
        program.
    (g) Alleged Domestic Violence Offense Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``alleged domestic violence offense'' means any allegation 
of--
        (1) a violation of section 928(b), 928b(1), 928b(5), or 930 of 
    title 10, United States Code (article 128(b), 128b(1), 128b(5), or 
    130 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), when committed 
    against a spouse, intimate partner, or immediate family member;
        (2) a violation of any other provision of subchapter X of 
    chapter 47 of such title (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), 
    when committed against a spouse, intimate partner, or immediate 
    family member; or
        (3) an attempt to commit an offense specified in paragraph (1) 
    or (2) as punishable under section 880 of such title (article 80 of 
    the Uniform Code of Military Justice).
    SEC. 549. NOTICE TO VICTIMS OF ALLEGED SEXUAL ASSAULT OF PENDENCY 
      OF FURTHER ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION FOLLOWING A DETERMINATION NOT TO 
      REFER TO TRIAL BY COURT-MARTIAL.
    Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, upon a 
determination not to refer a case of alleged sexual assault for trial 
by court-martial under chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code (the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), the commander making such 
determination shall periodically notify the victim of the status of a 
final determination on further action on such case, whether non-
judicial punishment under section 815 of such title (article 15 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), other administrative action, or no 
further action. Such notifications shall continue not less frequently 
than monthly until such final determination.
    SEC. 550. TREATMENT OF INFORMATION IN CATCH A SERIAL OFFENDER 
      PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.
    (a) Treatment Under FOIA.--Victim disclosures under the Catch a 
Serial Offender Program shall be withheld from public disclosure under 
paragraph (b)(3) of section 552 of title 5, United States Code 
(commonly referred to as the ``Freedom of Information Act'').
    (b) Preservation of Restricted Report.--The transmittal or receipt 
in connection with the Catch a Serial Offender Program of a report on a 
sexual assault that is treated as a restricted report shall not operate 
to terminate its treatment or status as a restricted report.
SEC. 550A. POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ON REGISTRATION AT MILITARY 
INSTALLATIONS OF CIVILIAN PROTECTIVE ORDERS APPLICABLE TO MEMBERS OF 
THE ARMED FORCES ASSIGNED TO SUCH INSTALLATIONS AND CERTAIN OTHER 
INDIVIDUALS.
    (a) Policies and Procedures Required.--Not later than one year 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
shall, in consultation with the Secretaries of the military 
departments, establish policies and procedures for the registration at 
military installations of any civilian protective orders described in 
subsection (b), including the duties and responsibilities of commanders 
of installations in the registration process.
    (b) Civilian Protective Orders.--A civilian protective order 
described in this subsection is any civilian protective order as 
follows:
        (1) A civilian protective order against a member of the Armed 
    Forces assigned to the installation concerned.
        (2) A civilian protective order against a civilian employee 
    employed at the installation concerned.
        (3) A civilian protective order against the civilian spouse or 
    intimate partner of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty and 
    assigned to the installation concerned, or of a civilian employee 
    described in paragraph (2), which order provides for the protection 
    of such member or employee.
    (c) Particular Elements.--The policies and procedures required by 
subsection (a) shall include the following:
        (1) A requirement for notice between and among the commander, 
    military law enforcement elements, and military criminal 
    investigative elements of an installation when a member of the 
    Armed Forces assigned to such installation, a civilian employee 
    employed at such installation, a civilian spouse or intimate 
    partner of a member assigned to such installation, or a civilian 
    spouse or intimate partner of a civilian employee employed at such 
    installation becomes subject to a civilian protective order.
        (2) A statement of policy that failure to register a civilian 
    protective order may not be a justification for the lack of 
    enforcement of such order by military law enforcement and other 
    applicable personnel who have knowledge of such order.
    (d) Letter.--As soon as practicable after establishing the policies 
and procedures required by subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit 
to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a letter that includes the following:
        (1) A detailed description of the policies and procedures.
        (2) A certification by the Secretary that the policies and 
    procedures have been implemented on each military installation.
SEC. 550B. DEFENSE ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR THE PREVENTION OF SEXUAL 
MISCONDUCT.
    (a) Establishment Required.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish and 
    maintain within the Department of Defense an advisory committee to 
    be known as the ``Defense Advisory Committee for the Prevention of 
    Sexual Misconduct'' (in this section referred to as the ``Advisory 
    Committee'').
        (2) Deadline for establishment.--The Secretary shall establish 
    the Advisory Committee not later than one year after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Membership.--
        (1) In general.--The Advisory Committee shall consist of not 
    more than 20 members, appointed by the Secretary from among 
    individuals who have an expertise appropriate for the work of the 
    Advisory Committee, including at least one individual with each 
    expertise as follows:
            (A) Expertise in the prevention of sexual assault and 
        behaviors on the sexual assault continuum of harm.
            (B) Expertise in adverse behaviors, including the 
        prevention of suicide and the prevention of substance abuse.
            (C) Expertise in the change of culture of large 
        organizations.
            (D) Expertise in implementation science.
        (2) Background of individuals.--Individuals appointed to the 
    Advisory Committee may include individuals with expertise in sexual 
    assault prevention efforts of institutions of higher education, 
    public health officials, and such other individuals as the 
    Secretary considers appropriate.
        (3) Prohibition on membership of members of armed forces on 
    active duty.--A member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty 
    may not serve as a member of the Advisory Committee.
    (c) Duties.--
        (1) In general.--The Advisory Committee shall advise the 
    Secretary on the following:
            (A) The prevention of sexual assault (including rape, 
        forcible sodomy, other sexual assault, and other sexual 
        misconduct (including behaviors on the sexual assault continuum 
        of harm)) involving members of the Armed Forces.
            (B) The policies, programs, and practices of each military 
        department, each Armed Force, and each military service academy 
        for the prevention of sexual assault as described in 
        subparagraph (A).
        (2) Basis for provision of advice.--For purposes of providing 
    advice to the Secretary pursuant to this subsection, the Advisory 
    Committee shall review, on an ongoing basis, the following:
            (A) Closed cases involving allegations of sexual assault 
        described in paragraph (1).
            (B) Efforts of institutions of higher education to prevent 
        sexual assault among students.
            (C) Any other information or matters that the Advisory 
        Committee or the Secretary considers appropriate.
        (3) Coordination of efforts.--In addition to the reviews 
    required by paragraph (2), for purposes of providing advice to the 
    Secretary the Advisory Committee shall also consult and coordinate 
    with the Defense Advisory Committee on Investigation, Prosecution, 
    and Defense of Sexual Assault in the Armed Forces (DAC-IPAD) on 
    matters of joint interest to the two Advisory Committees.
    (d) Annual Report.--Not later than March 30 each year, the Advisory 
Committee shall submit to the Secretary and the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the 
activities of the Advisory Committee pursuant to this section during 
the preceding year.
    (e) Sexual Assault Continuum of Harm.--In this section, the term 
``sexual assault continuum of harm'' includes--
        (1) inappropriate actions (such as sexist jokes), sexual 
    harassment, gender discrimination, hazing, cyber bullying, or other 
    behavior that contributes to a culture that is tolerant of, or 
    increases risk for, sexual assault; and
        (2) maltreatment or ostracism of a victim for a report of 
    sexual misconduct.
    (f) Termination.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
    Advisory Committee shall terminate on the date that is five years 
    after the date of the establishment of the Advisory Committee 
    pursuant to subsection (a).
        (2) Continuation.--The Secretary of Defense may continue the 
    Advisory Committee after the termination date applicable under 
    paragraph (1) if the Secretary determines that continuation of the 
    Advisory Committee after that date is advisable and appropriate. If 
    the Secretary determines to continue the Advisory Committee after 
    that date, the Secretary shall notify the Committees on the Armed 
    Services of the Senate and House of Representatives.
SEC. 550C. TRAINING FOR SPECIAL VICTIMS' COUNSEL ON CIVILIAN CRIMINAL 
JUSTICE MATTERS IN THE STATES OF THE MILITARY INSTALLATIONS TO WHICH 
ASSIGNED.
    (a) Training.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided in subsection (c), upon the 
    assignment of a Special Victims' Counsel (including a Victim Legal 
    Counsel of the Navy) to a military installation in the United 
    States, such Counsel shall be provided appropriate training on the 
    law and policies of the State or States in which such military 
    installation is located with respect to the criminal justice 
    matters specified in paragraph (2). The purpose of the training is 
    to assist such Counsel in providing victims of alleged sex-related 
    offenses with information necessary to make an informed decision 
    regarding preference as to the jurisdiction (whether court-martial 
    or State court) in which such offenses will be prosecuted.
        (2) Criminal justice matters.--The criminal justice matters 
    specified in this paragraph, with respect to a State, are the 
    following:
            (A) Victim rights.
            (B) Prosecution of criminal offenses.
            (C) Sentencing for conviction of criminal offenses.
            (D) Protective orders.
    (b) Alleged Sex-related Offense Defined.--In this section, the term 
``alleged sex-related offense'' means any allegation of--
        (1) a violation of section 920, 920b, 920c, or 930 of title 10, 
    United States Code (article 120, 120b, 120c, or 130 of the Uniform 
    Code of Military Justice); or
        (2) an attempt to commit an offense specified in a paragraph 
    (1) as punishable under section 880 of title 10, United States Code 
    (article 80 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice).
    (c) Exception.--The requirements of this section do not apply to a 
Special Victims' Counsel of the Coast Guard.
SEC. 550D. ENHANCING THE CAPABILITY OF MILITARY CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIVE 
ORGANIZATIONS TO PREVENT AND COMBAT CHILD SEXUAL EXPLOITATION.
    (a) In General.--Beginning not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish 
and carry out an initiative to enhance the capability of military 
criminal investigative organizations to prevent and combat child sexual 
exploitation.
    (b) Activities.--In establishing and carrying out the initiative 
under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense may--
        (1) work with internal and external functional experts to train 
    the personnel of military criminal investigative organizations 
    across the Department regarding--
            (A) technologies, tools, and techniques, including digital 
        forensics, to enhance the investigation of child sexual 
        exploitation; and
            (B) evidence-based forensic interviewing of child victims, 
        and the referral of child victims for trauma-informed mental 
        and medical health care, and other treatment and support 
        services;
        (2) to the extent authorized by law, collaborate with Federal, 
    State, local, and other civilian law enforcement agencies on issues 
    relating to child sexual exploitation, including by--
            (A) participating in task forces established by such 
        agencies for the purpose of preventing and combating child 
        sexual exploitation;
            (B) establishing cooperative agreements to facilitate co-
        training and collaboration with such agencies; and
            (C) ensuring that streamlined processes for the referral of 
        child sexual exploitation cases to other agencies and 
        jurisdictions, as appropriate, are fully operational;
        (3) as appropriate, assist in educating the military community 
    on the prevention and response to child sexual exploitation; and
        (4) carry out such other activities as the Secretary determines 
    to be relevant.
SEC. 550E. FEASIBILITY STUDY ON ESTABLISHMENT OF DATABASE OF MILITARY 
PROTECTIVE ORDERS.
    (a) Study.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a study on the 
feasibility of establishing a database of military protective orders 
issued by military commanders against individuals suspected of having 
committed an offense of domestic violence under section 928b of title 
10, United States Code (article 128b of the Uniform Code of Military 
Justice). The study shall include an examination of each of the 
following:
        (1) The feasibility of creating a database to record, track, 
    and report such military protective orders to the National Instant 
    Criminal Background Check System.
        (2) The feasibility of establishing a process by which a 
    military judge or magistrate may issue a protective order against 
    an individual suspected of having committed such an offense.
        (3) How the database and process described in paragraphs (1) 
    and (2), respectively, may differ from analogous civilian databases 
    and processes, including with regard to due process and other 
    procedural protections.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the results of the study 
conducted under subsection (a).
SEC. 550F. GAO REVIEW OF USERRA AND SCRA.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than January 31, 2021, the 
Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a review and 
submit a report to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
House of Representatives regarding what the Comptroller General 
determines are the effects of the common commercial and governmental 
practices of including a mandatory arbitration clause in employment and 
consumer agreements, on the ability of servicemembers to assert claims 
under and secure redress for violations of--
        (1) chapter 43 of title 38, United States Code (commonly 
    referred to as the ``Uniformed Services Employment and 
    Reemployments Rights Act of 1994'' and referred to in this section 
    as ``USERRA''); and
        (2) the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. 3901 et seq. 
    (referred to in this section as ``SCRA'')).
    (b) Elements.--The report under this section shall include the 
following:
        (1) Each process by which a servicemember may assert a claim 
    under USERRA or SCRA, including--
            (A) administrative assistance;
            (B) support, and dispute resolution processes provided by 
        Federal and State agencies;
            (C) arbitration; and
            (D) litigation.
        (2) With regards to each process identified under paragraph 
    (1), an evaluation of--
            (A) the flexibility the process affords to the 
        servicemember and other parties to the process;
            (B) the burden on the servicemember and other parties to 
        the process;
            (C) the financial cost of the process to the servicemember 
        and the other parties;
            (D) the speed of each process, including the rate at which 
        each claim pursued under such process is resolved;
            (E) the confidentiality of each process; and
            (F) the effects of the process.
        (3) Based on data regarding the results of past actions to 
    enforce servicemember rights and benefits under USERRA and SCRA, 
    including data of the Departments of Defense and Labor regarding 
    dispute resolution under USERRA and data of the Department of 
    Justice regarding litigation under SCRA--
            (A) an analysis of the extent to which each of the 
        processes identified in paragraph (1) has been employed to 
        address claims under USERRA or SCRA and
            (B) the extent to which each such process achieved a final 
        disposition favorable to the servicemember.
        (4) An assessment of general societal trends in the use of 
    mandatory arbitration clauses in employment and consumer 
    agreements, including any trend in a specific industry or 
    employment sector that relies on mandatory arbitration in such 
    contracts and agreements.
        (5) An assessment and explanation of any effect--
            (A) of the use of mandatory arbitration clauses in 
        employment or consumer agreements on military readiness and 
        deployability.
            (B) of USERRA or SCRA on the willingness of employers to 
        employ, and consumer service businesses to provide services to 
        servicemembers and their families.

                      Subtitle F--Member Education

    SEC. 551. AUTHORITY FOR DETAIL OF CERTAIN ENLISTED MEMBERS OF THE 
      ARMED FORCES AS STUDENTS AT LAW SCHOOLS.
    (a) In General.--Section 2004 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by inserting ``and enlisted members'' after 
        ``commissioned officers'';
            (B) by striking ``bachelor of laws or''; and
            (C) by inserting ``and enlisted members'' after ``twenty-
        five officers'';
        (2) in subsection (b)--
            (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting 
        ``or enlisted member'' after ``officer'';
            (B) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following 
        new paragraph (1):
        ``(1) either--
            ``(A) have served on active duty for a period of not less 
        than two years nor more than six years and be an officer in the 
        pay grade O-3 or below as of the time the training is to begin; 
        or
            ``(B) have served on active duty for a period of not less 
        than four years nor more than eight years and be an enlisted 
        member in the pay grade E-5, E-6, or E-7 as of the time the 
        training is to begin;'';
            (C) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3);
            (D) by inserting after paragraph (1), as amended by 
        subparagraph (B), the following new paragraph (2):
        ``(2) in the case of an enlisted member, meet all requirements 
    for acceptance of a commission as a commissioned officer in the 
    armed forces; and''; and
            (E) in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (3), as redesignated 
        by subparagraph (C) of this paragraph, by striking ``or law 
        specialist'';
        (3) in subsection (c)--
            (A) in the first sentence, by inserting ``and enlisted 
        members'' after ``Officers''; and
            (B) in the second sentence, by inserting ``or enlisted 
        member'' after ``officer'' each place it appears;
        (4) in subsection (d), by inserting ``and enlistment members'' 
    after ``officers'';
        (5) in subsection (e), by inserting ``or enlistment member'' 
    after ``officer''; and
        (6) in subsection (f), by inserting ``or enlisted member'' 
    after ``officer''.
    (b) Conforming and Clerical Amendments.--
        (1) Heading amendment.--The heading of such section is amended 
    to read as follows:
``Sec. 2004. Detail as students at law schools; commissioned officers; 
    certain enlisted members''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 101 of such title is amended by striking the item 
    relating to section 2004 and inserting the following new item:

``2004. Detail as students at law schools; commissioned officers; 
          certain enlisted members.''.
    SEC. 552. INCLUSION OF COAST GUARD IN DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
      STARBASE PROGRAM.
    Section 2193b of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``and the Secretary of the 
    Department in which the Coast Guard is operating'' after ``military 
    departments''; and
        (2) in subsection (f), by striking ``and the Secretaries of the 
    military departments'' and inserting ``, the Secretaries of the 
    military departments, and the Secretary of the Department in which 
    the Coast Guard is operating''.
    SEC. 553. DEGREE GRANTING AUTHORITY FOR UNITED STATES ARMY ARMAMENT 
      GRADUATE SCHOOL; LIMITATION ON ESTABLISHMENT OF CERTAIN 
      EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS.
    (a) Degree Granting Authority for United States Army Armament 
Graduate School.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 751 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 7422. Degree granting authority for United States Army Armament 
    Graduate School
    ``(a) Authority.--Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of 
the Army, the Chancellor of the United States Army Armament Graduate 
School may, upon the recommendation of the faculty and provost of the 
school, confer appropriate degrees upon graduates who meet the degree 
requirements.
    ``(b) Limitation.--A degree may not be conferred under this section 
unless--
        ``(1) the Secretary of Education has recommended approval of 
    the degree in accordance with the Federal Policy Governing Granting 
    of Academic Degrees by Federal Agencies; and
        ``(2) the United States Army Armament Graduate School is 
    accredited by the appropriate civilian academic accrediting agency 
    or organization to award the degree, as determined by the Secretary 
    of Education.
    ``(c) Congressional Notification Requirements.--(1) When seeking to 
establish degree granting authority under this section, the Secretary 
of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
Senate and the House of Representatives--
        ``(A) a copy of the self-assessment questionnaire required by 
    the Federal Policy Governing Granting of Academic Degrees by 
    Federal Agencies, at the time the assessment is submitted to the 
    Department of Education's National Advisory Committee on 
    Institutional Quality and Integrity; and
        ``(B) the subsequent recommendations and rationale of the 
    Secretary of Education regarding the establishment of the degree 
    granting authority.
    ``(2) Upon any modification or redesignation of existing degree 
granting authority, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives 
a report containing the rationale for the proposed modification or 
redesignation and any subsequent recommendation of the Secretary of 
Education on the proposed modification or redesignation.
    ``(3) The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report 
containing an explanation of any action by the appropriate academic 
accrediting agency or organization not to accredit the United States 
Army Armament Graduate School to award any new or existing degree.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new 
    item:

``7422. Degree granting authority for United States Army Armament 
          Graduate School.''.

    (b) Limitation.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 101 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2017. Limitation on establishment of postsecondary educational 
    institutions pending notice to Congress
    ``(a) Limitation.--The Secretary of Defense may not establish a 
postsecondary educational institution within the Department of Defense 
until a period of one year has elapsed following the date on which the 
Secretary notifies the congressional defense committees of the intent 
of the Secretary to establish the institution.
    ``(b) Postsecondary Educational Institution Defined.--In this 
section, the term `postsecondary educational institution' means a 
school or other educational institution that is intended to provide 
students with a course of instruction that is comparable, in length and 
academic rigor, to a course of instruction for which an associate's, 
bachelor's, or graduate degree may be awarded.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new 
    item:

``2017. Limitation on establishment of postsecondary educational 
          institutions pending notice to Congress.''.

        (3) Applicability.--Section 2017 of title 10, United States 
    Code, as added by paragraph (1), shall apply with respect to 
    postsecondary educational institutions intended to be established 
    by the Secretary of Defense on or after the date of the enactment 
    of this Act.
    SEC. 554. PROHIBITION ON OFF-DUTY EMPLOYMENT FOR CADETS AND 
      MIDSHIPMEN COMPLETING OBLIGATED SERVICE AFTER GRADUATION.
    (a) Military Academy.--Section 7448(a)(5)(A) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting ``or seek or accept approval for 
off-duty employment while completing the cadet's commissioned service 
obligation'' before ``to obtain employment''.
    (b) Naval Academy.--Section 8459(a)(5)(A) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting ``or seek or accept approval for 
off-duty employment while completing the midshipman's commissioned 
service obligation'' before ``to obtain employment''.
    (c) Air Force Academy.--Section 9448(a)(5)(A) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting ``or seek or accept approval for 
off-duty employment while completing the cadet's commissioned service 
obligation'' before ``to obtain employment''.
    SEC. 555. CONSIDERATION OF REQUEST FOR TRANSFER OF A CADET OR 
      MIDSHIPMAN AT A MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMY WHO IS THE VICTIM OF A 
      SEXUAL ASSAULT OR RELATED OFFENSE.
    (a) United States Military Academy.--Section 7461 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(e) Consideration of Request for Transfer of a Cadet Who Is the 
Victim of a Sexual Assault or Related Offense.--(1) The Secretary of 
the Army shall provide for timely consideration of and action on a 
request submitted by a cadet appointed to the United States Military 
Academy who is the victim of an alleged sexual assault or other offense 
covered by section 920, 920c, or 930 of this title (article 120, 120c, 
or 130 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice) for transfer to another 
military service academy or to enroll in a Senior Reserve Officers' 
Training Corps program affiliated with another institution of higher 
education.
    ``(2) The Secretary of the Army shall prescribe regulations to 
carry out this subsection, within guidelines provided by the Secretary 
of Defense that--
        ``(A) provide that the Superintendent of the United States 
    Military Academy shall ensure that any cadet who has been appointed 
    to the United States Military Academy and who is a victim of an 
    alleged sexual assault or other offense referred to in paragraph 
    (1), is informed of the right to request a transfer pursuant to 
    this section, and that any formal request submitted by a cadet is 
    processed as expeditiously as practicable through the chain of 
    command for review and action by the Superintendent;
        ``(B) direct the Superintendent of the United States Military 
    Academy, in coordination with the Superintendent of the military 
    service academy to which the cadet requests to transfer--
            ``(i) to take action on a request for transfer under this 
        subsection not later than 72 hours after receiving the formal 
        request from the cadet;
            ``(ii) to approve such request for transfer unless there 
        are exceptional circumstances that require denial of the 
        request; and
            ``(iii) upon approval of such request, to take all 
        necessary and appropriate action to effectuate the transfer of 
        the cadet to the military service academy concerned as 
        expeditiously as possible; and
        ``(C) direct the Superintendent of the United States Military 
    Academy, in coordination with the Secretary of the military 
    department that sponsors the Senior Reserve Officers' Training 
    Corps program at the institution of higher education to which the 
    cadet requests to transfer--
            ``(i) to take action on a request for transfer under this 
        subsection not later than 72 hours after receiving the formal 
        request from the cadet;
            ``(ii) subject to the cadet's acceptance for admission to 
        the institution of higher education to which the cadet wishes 
        to transfer, to approve such request for transfer unless there 
        are exceptional circumstances that require denial of the 
        application; and
            ``(iii) to take all necessary and appropriate action to 
        effectuate the cadet's enrollment in the institution of higher 
        education to which the cadet wishes to transfer and to process 
        the cadet for participation in the relevant Senior Reserve 
        Officers' Training Corps program as expeditiously as possible.
    ``(3) If the Superintendent of the United States Military Academy 
denies a request for transfer under this subsection, the cadet may 
request review of the denial by the Secretary of the Army, who shall 
take action on such request not later than 72 hours after receipt of 
the formal request for review.
    ``(4) The Secretary concerned shall ensure that all records of any 
request, determination, transfer, or other action under this subsection 
remain confidential, consistent with applicable law and regulation.
    ``(5) A cadet who transfers under this subsection may retain the 
cadet's appointment to the United States Military Academy or may be 
appointed to the military service academy to which the cadet transfers 
without regard to the limitations and requirements set forth in 
sections 7442, 8454, and 9442 of this title.''.
    (b) United States Naval Academy.--Section 8480 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(e) Consideration of Request for Transfer of a Midshipman Who Is 
the Victim of a Sexual Assault or Related Offense.--(1) The Secretary 
of the Navy shall provide for timely consideration of and action on a 
request submitted by a midshipman appointed to the United States Naval 
Academy who is the victim of an alleged sexual assault or other offense 
covered by section 920, 920c, or 930 of this title (article 120, 120c, 
or 130 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice) for transfer to another 
military service academy or to enroll in a Senior Reserve Officers' 
Training Corps program affiliated with another institution of higher 
education.
    ``(2) The Secretary of the Navy shall prescribe regulations to 
carry out this subsection, within guidelines provided by the Secretary 
of Defense that--
        ``(A) provide that the Superintendent of the United States 
    Naval Academy shall ensure that any midshipman who has been 
    appointed to the United States Naval Academy and who is a victim of 
    an alleged sexual assault or other offense referred to in paragraph 
    (1), is informed of the right to request a transfer pursuant to 
    this section, and that any formal request submitted by a midshipman 
    is processed as expeditiously as practicable through the chain of 
    command for review and action by the Superintendent;
        ``(B) direct the Superintendent of the United States Naval 
    Academy, in coordination with the Superintendent of the military 
    service academy to which the midshipman requests to transfer--
            ``(i) to take action on a request for transfer under this 
        subsection not later than 72 hours after receiving the formal 
        request from the midshipman;
            ``(ii) to approve such request for transfer unless there 
        are exceptional circumstances that require denial of the 
        request; and
            ``(iii) upon approval of such request, to take all 
        necessary and appropriate action to effectuate the transfer of 
        the midshipman to the military service academy concerned as 
        expeditiously as possible; and
        ``(C) direct the Superintendent of the United States Naval 
    Academy, in coordination with the Secretary of the military 
    department that sponsors the Senior Reserve Officers' Training 
    Corps program at the institution of higher education to which the 
    midshipman requests to transfer--
            ``(i) to take action on a request for transfer under this 
        subsection not later than 72 hours after receiving the formal 
        request from the midshipman;
            ``(ii) subject to the midshipman's acceptance for admission 
        to the institution of higher education to which the midshipman 
        wishes to transfer, to approve such request for transfer unless 
        there are exceptional circumstances that require denial of the 
        application; and
            ``(iii) to take all necessary and appropriate action to 
        effectuate the midshipman's enrollment in the institution of 
        higher education to which the midshipman wishes to transfer and 
        to process the midshipman for participation in the relevant 
        Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps program as 
        expeditiously as possible.
    ``(3) If the Superintendent of the United States Naval Academy 
denies a request for transfer under this subsection, the midshipman may 
request review of the denial by the Secretary of the Navy, who shall 
take action on such request not later than 72 hours after receipt of 
the formal request for review.
    ``(4) The Secretary concerned shall ensure that all records of any 
request, determination, transfer, or other action under this subsection 
remain confidential, consistent with applicable law and regulation.
    ``(5) A midshipman who transfers under this subsection may retain 
the midshipman's appointment to the United States Naval Academy or may 
be appointed to the military service academy to which the midshipman 
transfers without regard to the limitations and requirements set forth 
in sections 7442, 8454, and 9442 of this title.''.
    (c) United States Air Force Academy.--Section 9461 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(e) Consideration of Request for Transfer of a Cadet Who Is the 
Victim of a Sexual Assault or Related Offense.--(1) The Secretary of 
the Air Force shall provide for timely consideration of and action on a 
request submitted by a cadet appointed to the United States Air Force 
Academy who is the victim of an alleged sexual assault or other offense 
covered by section 920, 920c, or 930 of this title (article 120, 120c, 
or 130 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice) for transfer to another 
military service academy or to enroll in a Senior Reserve Officers' 
Training Corps program affiliated with another institution of higher 
education.
    ``(2) The Secretary of the Air Force shall prescribe regulations to 
carry out this subsection, within guidelines provided by the Secretary 
of Defense that--
        ``(A) provide that the Superintendent of the United States Air 
    Force Academy shall ensure that any cadet who has been appointed to 
    the United States Air Force Academy and who is a victim of an 
    alleged sexual assault or other offense referred to in paragraph 
    (1), is informed of the right to request a transfer pursuant to 
    this section, and that any formal request submitted by a cadet is 
    processed as expeditiously as practicable through the chain of 
    command for review and action by the Superintendent;
        ``(B) direct the Superintendent of the United States Air Force 
    Academy, in coordination with the Superintendent of the military 
    service academy to which the cadet requests to transfer--
            ``(i) to take action on a request for transfer under this 
        subsection not later than 72 hours after receiving the formal 
        request from the cadet;
            ``(ii) to approve such request for transfer unless there 
        are exceptional circumstances that require denial of the 
        request; and
            ``(iii) upon approval of such request, to take all 
        necessary and appropriate action to effectuate the transfer of 
        the cadet to the military service academy concerned as 
        expeditiously as possible; and
        ``(C) direct the Superintendent of the United States Air Force 
    Academy, in coordination with the Secretary of the military 
    department that sponsors the Senior Reserve Officers' Training 
    Corps program at the institution of higher education to which the 
    cadet requests to transfer--
            ``(i) to take action on a request for transfer under this 
        subsection not later than 72 hours after receiving the formal 
        request from the cadet;
            ``(ii) subject to the cadet's acceptance for admission to 
        the institution of higher education to which the cadet wishes 
        to transfer, to approve such request for transfer unless there 
        are exceptional circumstances that require denial of the 
        application; and
            ``(iii) to take all necessary and appropriate action to 
        effectuate the cadet's enrollment in the institution of higher 
        education to which the cadet wishes to transfer and to process 
        the cadet for participation in the relevant Senior Reserve 
        Officers' Training Corps program as expeditiously as possible.
    ``(3) If the Superintendent of the United States Air Force Academy 
denies a request for transfer under this subsection, the cadet may 
request review of the denial by the Secretary of the Air Force, who 
shall take action on such request not later than 72 hours after receipt 
of the formal request for review.
    ``(4) The Secretary concerned shall ensure that all records of any 
request, determination, transfer, or other action under this subsection 
remain confidential, consistent with applicable law and regulation.
    ``(5) A cadet who transfers under this subsection may retain the 
cadet's appointment to the United States Air Force Academy or may be 
appointed to the military service academy to which the cadet transfers 
without regard to the limitations and requirements set forth in 
sections 7442, 8454, and 9442 of this title.''.
    SEC. 556. REDESIGNATION OF THE COMMANDANT OF THE UNITED STATES AIR 
      FORCE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AS THE DIRECTOR AND CHANCELLOR OF 
      SUCH INSTITUTE.
    (a) Redesignation.--Section 9414b(a) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
        (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Commandant'' and 
    inserting ``Director and Chancellor'';
        (2) by striking ``Commandant'' each place it appears and 
    inserting ``Director and Chancellor''; and
        (3) in the heading of paragraph (3), by striking ``Commandant'' 
    and inserting ``Director and Chancellor''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section 9414(f) of such title is 
amended by striking ``Commandant'' both places it appears and inserting 
``Director and Chancellor''.
    (c) References.--Any reference in any law, regulation, map, 
document, paper, or other record of the United States to the Commandant 
of the United States Air Force Institute of Technology shall be deemed 
to be a reference to the Director and Chancellor of the United States 
Air Force Institute of Technology.
    SEC. 557. ELIGIBILITY OF ADDITIONAL ENLISTED MEMBERS FOR ASSOCIATE 
      DEGREE PROGRAMS OF THE COMMUNITY COLLEGE OF THE AIR FORCE.
    Section 9415(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) Enlisted members of the armed forces other than the Air 
    Force who are participating in Community College of the Air Force 
    affiliated joint-service training and education courses.''.
    SEC. 558. SPEECH DISORDERS OF CADETS AND MIDSHIPMEN.
    (a) Testing.--The Superintendent of a military service academy 
shall provide testing for speech disorders to incoming cadets or 
midshipmen under the jurisdiction of that Superintendent.
    (b) No Effect on Admission.--The testing under subsection (a) may 
not have any effect on admission to a military service academy.
    (c) Results.--The Superintendent shall provide each cadet or 
midshipman under the jurisdiction of that Superintendent the result of 
the testing under subsection (a) and a list of warfare unrestricted 
line officer positions and occupation specialities that require 
successful performance on the speech test.
    (d) Therapy.--The Superintendent shall furnish speech therapy to a 
cadet or midshipman under the jurisdiction of that Superintendent at 
the election of the cadet or midshipman.
    (e) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretaries of the military departments 
shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives a joint report that includes the following:
        (1) The number of cadets or midshipmen with an identified 
    speech disorder in each military service academy.
        (2) A list of the health care and administrative resources 
    related to speech disorders available to cadets and midshipmen 
    described in paragraph (1).
        (3) A list of positions and specialties described in subsection 
    (c) pursued by the cadets and midshipmen described in paragraph (1) 
    at the time of graduation.
    SEC. 559. REQUIREMENT TO CONTINUE PROVISION OF TUITION ASSISTANCE 
      FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.
    The Secretary of each military department shall carry out tuition 
assistance programs for members of an Armed Force under the 
jurisdiction of that Secretary during fiscal year 2020 using an amount 
not less than the sum of any amounts appropriated for tuition 
assistance for members of that Armed Force for fiscal year 2020.
    SEC. 560. INFORMATION ON INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION 
      PARTICIPATING IN THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TUITION ASSISTANCE 
      PROGRAM.
    (a) List of Participating Institutions.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall make available, on a publicly accessible website of the 
Department of Defense, a list that identifies--
        (1) each institution of higher education that receives funds 
    under the Department of Defense Tuition Assistance Program; and
        (2) the amount of such funds received by the institution.
    (b) Annual Updates.--The Secretary of Defense shall update the list 
described in subsection (a) not less frequently than once annually.
SEC. 560A. INCLUSION OF INFORMATION ON FREE CREDIT MONITORING IN ANNUAL 
FINANCIAL LITERACY BRIEFING.
    The Secretary of each military department shall ensure that the 
annual financial literacy education briefing provided to members of the 
Armed Forces includes information on the availability of free credit 
monitoring services pursuant to section 605A(k) of the Fair Credit 
Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681c-1(k)).
SEC. 560B. PROGRAMS TO FACILITATE THE AWARD OF PRIVATE PILOT'S 
CERTIFICATES.
    (a) Programs Authorized.--Each Secretary of a military department 
may carry out a program under which qualified participants may obtain a 
private pilot's certificate through an institution of higher education 
with an accredited aviation program that is approved by such Secretary 
pursuant to subsection (c).
    (b) Participant Qualifications and Types of Assistance.--
        (1) In general.--In carrying out a program under subsection 
    (a), the Secretary of a military department shall prescribe--
            (A) the standards to be met for participation in the 
        program; and
            (B) the types of assistance, if any, to be provided to 
        individuals who participate in the program.
        (2) Uniformity across military departments.--To the extent 
    practicable, the standards and types of assistance prescribed under 
    paragraph (1) shall be uniform across the military departments.
    (c) Approved Institutions of Higher Education.--
        (1) In general.--In carrying out a program under subsection 
    (a), the Secretary of a military department shall maintain a list 
    of institutions of higher education (as that term is defined in 
    section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001)) 
    through which an individual participating in the program may obtain 
    a private pilot's certificate.
        (2) Qualifications and standards.--Any institution of higher 
    education included on a list under paragraph (1), and any course of 
    instruction toward obtaining a private pilot's certificate offered 
    by such institution, shall meet such qualifications and standards 
    as the Secretary shall prescribe for purposes of the program. Such 
    qualifications and standards shall include a requirement that any 
    institution included on the list award, to individual participating 
    in the program, academic credit at such institution for any portion 
    of course work completed on the ground school course of instruction 
    of such institution in connection with obtaining a private pilot's 
    certificate, regardless of whether the participant fully completed 
    the ground school course of instruction.
    (d) Annual Reports on Programs.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than February 28, 2021, and each 
    year thereafter, each Secretary of a military department shall 
    submit to Congress a report on the program, if any, carried out by 
    such Secretary under subsection (a) during the preceding calendar 
    year.
        (2) Elements.--Each report under paragraph (1) shall include, 
    for the program and year covered by such report, the following:
            (A) The total number of participants in the program.
            (B) The number of private pilot's certificates awarded to 
        participants in the program.
            (C) The number of participants in the program who fully 
        completed a ground school course of instruction in connection 
        with obtaining a private pilot's certificate.

               Subtitle G--Member Training and Transition

    SEC. 561. REQUIREMENT TO PROVIDE INFORMATION REGARDING BENEFITS 
      CLAIMS TO MEMBERS DURING TAP COUNSELING.
    Section 1142(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(19) Information regarding how to file claims for benefits 
    available to the member under laws administered by the Secretaries 
    of Defense and Veterans Affairs.''.
    SEC. 562. PARTICIPATION OF OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES IN THE 
      SKILLBRIDGE APPRENTICESHIP AND INTERNSHIP PROGRAM FOR MEMBERS OF 
      THE ARMED FORCES.
    Section 1143(e) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
        (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
    paragraph (3):
    ``(3) Any program under this subsection may be carried out at, 
through, or in consultation with such other departments or agencies of 
the Federal Government as the Secretary of the military department 
concerned considers appropriate.''.
    SEC. 563. FIRST MODIFICATION OF ELEMENTS OF REPORT ON THE IMPROVED 
      TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.
    Section 552(b)(4) of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is amended 
by adding at the end the following:
            ``(E) The evaluation of the Secretary regarding the 
        effectiveness of the Transition Assistance Program for all 
        members of the Armed Forces.
            ``(F) The evaluation of the Secretary regarding the 
        effectiveness of the Transition Assistance Program specifically 
        for female members of the Armed Forces.''.
    SEC. 564. SECOND MODIFICATION OF ELEMENTS OF REPORT ON THE IMPROVED 
      TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.
    Section 552(b)(4) of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), as amended 
by section 563 of this Act, is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) through (F) as 
    subparagraphs (B) through (G), respectively;
        (2) by inserting before subparagraph (B), as redesignated by 
    paragraph (1), the following new subparagraph (A):
            ``(A) The total number of members eligible to attend 
        Transition Assistance Program counseling.''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
            ``(H) The number of members who participated in programs 
        under section 1143(e) of title 10, United States Code (commonly 
        referred to as `Job Training, Employment Skills, 
        Apprenticeships and Internships (JTEST-AI)' or `Skill Bridge').
            ``(I) Such other information as is required to provide 
        Congress with a comprehensive description of the participation 
        of the members in the Transition Assistance Program and 
        programs described in subparagraph (H).''.
    SEC. 565. PROHIBITION ON GENDER-SEGREGATED TRAINING AT MARINE CORPS 
      RECRUIT DEPOTS.
    (a) Parris Island.--
        (1) Prohibition.--Subject to paragraph (2), training at the 
    Marine Corps Recruit Depot, Parris Island, South Carolina, may not 
    be segregated based on gender.
        (2) Deadline.--The Commandant of the Marine Corps shall carry 
    out this subsection not later than five years after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act.
    (b) San Diego.--
        (1) Prohibition.--Subject to paragraph (2), training at the 
    Marine Corps Recruit Depot, San Diego, California, may not be 
    segregated based on gender.
        (2) Deadline.--The Commandant of the Marine Corps shall carry 
    out this subsection not later than eight years after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act.
    SEC. 566. ASSESSMENT OF DEATHS OF RECRUITS UNDER THE JURISDICTION 
      OF THE SECRETARIES OF THE MILITARY DEPARTMENTS.
    (a) Assessment.--The Inspector General of the Department of Defense 
shall conduct an assessment of the deaths of recruits at facilities 
under the jurisdiction of the Secretaries of the military departments, 
and the effectiveness of the current medical protocols on the training 
bases.
    (b) Report.--Not later than September 30, 2020, the Inspector 
General shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
and the House of Representative a report containing the results of the 
assessment conducted under subsection (a). The report shall include the 
following:
        (1) The number of recruits who died during basic training in 
    the five years preceding the date of the report.
        (2) The causes of deaths described in paragraph (1).
        (3) The types of medical treatment that was provided to 
    recruits described in paragraph (1).
        (4) Whether any of the deaths identified under paragraph (1) 
    were found to be a result of medical negligence.
        (5) A description of medical capabilities and personnel 
    available to the recruits at each facility.
        (6) A description of medical resources accessible to the 
    recruits at the company level at each facility.
        (7) A description of 24-hour medical resources available to 
    recruits at each facility.
        (8) An evaluation of the guidelines and resources in place to 
    monitor sick recruits.
        (9) An evaluation of how supervisors evaluate and determine 
    whether a sick recruit should continue training or further seek 
    medical assistance.
        (10) An evaluation of how the Secretaries of the military 
    departments can increase visibility of the comprehensive medical 
    status of a sick recruit to instructors and supervisors in order to 
    provide better situational awareness of the such medical status.
        (11) An evaluation of how to improve medical care for recruits.
    SEC. 567. REVIEW OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TRAINING PROGRAMS 
      REGARDING DISINFORMATION CAMPAIGNS.
    (a) Review.--Not later than 120 days after the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall conduct a review of existing 
programs, tools, and resources of the Department of Defense for 
training members of the Armed Forces and employees of the Department 
regarding the threat of disinformation campaigns specifically targeted 
at such individuals and the families of such individuals.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 270 days after the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit a report to the 
congressional defense committees regarding the programs, tools, and 
resources identified under subsection (a).
    SEC. 568. COMMAND MATTERS IN CONNECTION WITH TRANSITION ASSISTANCE 
      PROGRAMS.
    The training provided a commander of a military installation in 
connection with the commencement of assignment to the installation 
shall include a module on the covered transition assistance programs 
available for members of the Armed Forces assigned to the installation.
    SEC. 569. MACHINE READABILITY AND ELECTRONIC TRANSFERABILITY OF 
      CERTIFICATE OF RELEASE OR DISCHARGE FROM ACTIVE DUTY (DD FORM 
      214).
    (a) Modification Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall modify 
the Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD Form 214) 
to--
        (1) be machine readable and electronically transferable; and
        (2) include a specific block explicitly identified as the 
    location in which a member of the Armed Forces may provide one or 
    more email addresses by which the member may be contacted after 
    discharge or release from active duty.
    (b) Deadline for Modification.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
release a revised Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty 
(DD Form 214), modified pursuant to subsection (a), not later than four 
years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit a report 
to Congress regarding the following:
        (1) What systems of the Department of Defense require an 
    individual to manually enter information from DD Form 214.
        (2) What activities of the Department of Defense require a 
    veteran or former member of the Armed Forces to provide a physical 
    copy of DD Form 214.
        (3) The order of priority for modernizing items identified 
    under paragraphs (1) and (2) as determined by the Secretary.
        (4) The estimated cost, as determined by the Secretary, to 
    automate items identified under paragraphs (1) and (2).
    SEC. 570. RECORDS OF SERVICE FOR RESERVES.
    (a) Establishment.--Not later than September 30, 2020, the 
Secretary of Defense shall establish and implement a standard record of 
service for members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces, 
similar to DD Form 214, that summarizes the record of service of each 
such member, including dates of active duty service.
    (b) Coordination.--In carrying out this section, the Secretary of 
Defense shall coordinate with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
ensure that the record established under this section is acceptable as 
proof of service for former members of the reserve components of the 
Armed Forces who are eligible for benefits under laws administered by 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to receive such benefits.
SEC. 570A. LIMITATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS IN CONNECTION WITH SEPARATIONS 
FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES WHO SUFFER FROM MENTAL HEALTH 
CONDITIONS IN CONNECTION WITH A SEX-RELATED, INTIMATE PARTNER VIOLENCE-
RELATED, OR SPOUSAL-ABUSE OFFENSE.
    (a) Confirmation of Diagnosis of Condition Required Before 
Separation.--Before a member of the Armed Forces who was the victim of 
a sex-related offense, an intimate partner violence-related offense, or 
a spousal-abuse offense during service in the Armed Forces (whether or 
not such offense was committed by another member of the Armed Forces), 
and who has a mental health condition not amounting to a physical 
disability, is separated, discharged, or released from the Armed Forces 
based solely on such condition, the diagnosis of such condition must 
be--
        (1) corroborated by a competent mental health care professional 
    at the peer level or a higher level of the health care professional 
    making the diagnosis; and
        (2) endorsed by the Surgeon General of the military department 
    concerned.
    (b) Narrative Reason for Separation if Mental Health Condition 
Present.--If the narrative reason for separation, discharge, or release 
from the Armed Forces of a member of the Armed Forces is a mental 
health condition that is not a disability, the appropriate narrative 
reason for the separation, discharge, or release shall be a condition, 
not a disability, or Secretarial authority.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``intimate partner violence-related offense'' 
    means the following:
            (A) An offense under section 928 or 930 of title 10, United 
        States Code (article 128 or 130 of the Uniform Code of Military 
        Justice).
            (B) An offense under State law for conduct identical or 
        substantially similar to an offense described in subparagraph 
        (A).
        (2) The term ``sex-related offense'' means the following:
            (A) An offense under section 920 or 920b of title 10, 
        United States Code (article 120 or 120b of the Uniform Code of 
        Military Justice).
            (B) An offense under State law for conduct identical or 
        substantially similar to an offense described in subparagraph 
        (A).
        (3) The term ``spousal-abuse offense'' means the following:
            (A) An offense under section 928 of title 10, United States 
        Code (article 128 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice).
            (B) An offense under State law for conduct identical or 
        substantially similar to an offense described in subparagraph 
        (A).
    (d) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect 180 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with respect to 
separations, discharges, and releases from the Armed Forces that occur 
on or after that effective date.
SEC. 570B. PROHIBITION ON INVOLUNTARY SEPARATION OF CERTAIN MEMBERS OF 
THE ARMED FORCES; CONSIDERATION OF MILITARY SERVICE IN REMOVAL 
DETERMINATIONS.
    (a) Prohibition on Involuntary Separation.--
        (1) In general.--No member of the Armed Forces may be 
    involuntarily separated from the Armed Forces solely because that 
    member is a covered member.
        (2) Covered member defined.--In this subsection, the term 
    ``covered member'' means a member of the Armed Forces who--
            (A) possesses a current and valid employment authorization 
        document that was issued pursuant to the memorandum of the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security dated June 15, 2012, and 
        entitled ``Exercising Prosecutorial Discretion with Respect to 
        Individuals who Came to the United States as Children''; or
            (B) is currently in a temporary protected status under 
        section 244 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
        1254a).
    (b) Consideration of Military Service in Removal Determinations.--
        (1) In general.--With regards to an individual, an immigration 
    officer shall take into consideration evidence of military service 
    by that individual in determining whether--
            (A) to issue to that individual a notice to appear in 
        removal proceedings, an administrative order of removal, or a 
        reinstatement of a final removal order; and
            (B) to execute a final order of removal regarding that 
        individual.
        (2) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            (A) The term ``evidence of service'' means evidence that an 
        individual served as a member of the Armed Forces, and the 
        characterization of each period of service of that individual 
        in the Armed Forces.
            (B) The term ``immigration officer'' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act 
        (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).
SEC. 570C. INCLUSION OF QUESTION REGARDING IMMIGRATION STATUS ON 
PRESEPARATION COUNSELING CHECKLIST (DD FORM 2648).
    Not later than September 30, 2020, the Secretary of Defense shall 
modify the preseparation counseling checklist for active component, 
active guard reserve, active reserve, full time support, and reserve 
program administrator service members (DD Form 2648) to include a 
specific block wherein a member of the Armed Forces may indicate that 
the member would like to receive information regarding the immigration 
status of that member and expedited naturalization.
SEC. 570D. COUNSELING FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES WHO ARE NOT 
CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES ON NATURALIZATION IN THE UNITED STATES.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary concerned shall furnish to covered 
individuals under the jurisdiction of that Secretary counseling 
regarding how to apply for naturalization in the United States.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``covered individual'' means a member of the Armed 
    Forces who is not a citizen of the United States.
        (2) The term ``Secretary concerned'' has the meaning given that 
    term in section 101(a)(9) of title 10, United States Code.
SEC. 570E. PILOT PROGRAM ON INFORMATION SHARING BETWEEN DEPARTMENT OF 
DEFENSE AND DESIGNATED RELATIVES AND FRIENDS OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
FORCES REGARDING THE EXPERIENCES AND CHALLENGES OF MILITARY SERVICE.
    (a) Pilot Program Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter 
    into an agreement with the American Red Cross to carry out a pilot 
    program under which the American Red Cross--
            (A) encourages a member of the Armed Forces, upon the 
        enlistment or appointment of such member, to designate up to 10 
        persons to whom information regarding the military service of 
        such member shall be disseminated using contact information 
        obtained under paragraph (6); and
            (B) provides such persons, within 30 days after the date on 
        which such persons are designated under subparagraph (A), the 
        option to elect to receive such information regarding military 
        service.
        (2) Dissemination.--The Secretary shall disseminate information 
    described in paragraph (1)(A) under the pilot program on a regular 
    basis.
        (3) Types of information.--The types of information to be 
    disseminated under the pilot program to persons who elect to 
    receive such information shall include information regarding--
            (A) aspects of daily life and routine experienced by 
        members of the Armed Forces;
            (B) the challenges and stresses of military service, 
        particularly during and after deployment as part of a 
        contingency operation;
            (C) the services available to members of the Armed Forces 
        and the dependents of such members to cope with the experiences 
        and challenges of military service;
            (D) benefits administered by the Department of Defense for 
        members of the Armed Forces and the dependents of such members;
            (E) a toll-free telephone number through which such persons 
        who elect to receive information under the pilot program may 
        request information regarding the program; and
            (F) such other information as the Secretary determines to 
        be appropriate.
        (4) Privacy of information.--In carrying out the pilot program, 
    the Secretary may not disseminate information under paragraph (3) 
    in violation of laws and regulations pertaining to the privacy of 
    members of the Armed Forces, including requirements pursuant to--
            (A) section 552a of title 5, United States Code; and
            (B) the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act 
        of 1996 (Public Law 104-191).
        (5) Notice and modifications.--In carrying out the pilot 
    program, the Secretary shall, with respect to a member of the Armed 
    Forces--
            (A) ensure that such member is notified of the ability to 
        modify designations made by such member under paragraph (1)(A); 
        and
            (B) upon the request of a member, authorize such member to 
        modify such designations at any time.
        (6) Contact information.--In making a designation under the 
    pilot program, a member of the Armed Forces shall provide necessary 
    contact information, specifically including an email address, to 
    facilitate the dissemination of information regarding the military 
    service of the member.
        (7) Opt-in and opt-out of program.--
            (A) Opt-in by members.--A member may participate in the 
        pilot program only if the member voluntarily elects to 
        participate in the program. A member seeking to make such an 
        election shall make such election in a manner, and by including 
        such information, as the Secretary and the Red Cross shall 
        jointly specify for purposes of the pilot program.
            (B) Opt-in by designated recipients.--A person designated 
        pursuant to paragraph (1)(A) may receive information under the 
        pilot program only if the person makes the election described 
        in paragraph (1)(B).
            (C) Opt-out.--In carrying out the pilot program, the 
        Secretary shall, with respect to a person who has elected to 
        receive information under such pilot program, cease 
        disseminating such information to that person upon request of 
        such person.
    (b) Survey and Report on Pilot Program.--
        (1) Survey.--Not later than two years after the date on which 
    the pilot program commences, the Secretary, in consultation with 
    the American Red Cross, shall administer a survey to persons who 
    elected to receive information under the pilot program for the 
    purpose of receiving feedback regarding the quality of information 
    disseminated under this section, including whether such information 
    appropriately reflects the military career progression of members 
    of the Armed Forces.
        (2) Report.--Not later than three years after the date on which 
    the pilot program commences, the Secretary shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a final report on the pilot 
    program which includes--
            (A) the results of the survey administered under paragraph 
        (1);
            (B) a determination as to whether the pilot program should 
        be made permanent; and
            (C) recommendations as to modifications necessary to 
        improve the program if made permanent.
    (c) Termination of Pilot Program.--The pilot program shall 
terminate upon submission of the report required by subsection (b)(2).
SEC. 570F. CONNECTIONS OF MEMBERS RETIRING OR SEPARATING FROM THE ARMED 
FORCES WITH COMMUNITY-BASED ORGANIZATIONS AND RELATED ENTITIES.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs shall jointly seek to enter into memoranda of 
understanding or other agreements with State veterans agencies under 
which information from Department of Defense Form DD-2648 on 
individuals undergoing retirement, discharge, or release from the Armed 
Forces is transmitted to one or more State veterans agencies, as 
elected by such individuals, to provide or connect veterans to benefits 
or services as follows:
        (1) Assistance in preparation of resumes.
        (2) Training for employment interviews.
        (3) Employment recruitment training.
        (4) Other services leading directly to a successful transition 
    from military life to civilian life.
        (5) Healthcare, including care for mental health.
        (6) Transportation or transportation-related services.
        (7) Housing.
        (8) Such other benefits or services as the Secretaries jointly 
    consider appropriate for purposes of this section.
    (b) Information Transmitted.--The information transmitted on 
individuals as described in subsection (a) shall be such information on 
Form DD-2648 as the Secretaries jointly consider appropriate to 
facilitate community-based organizations and related entities in 
providing or connecting such individuals to benefits and services as 
described in subsection (a).
    (c) Modification of Form DD-2648.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
make such modifications to Form DD-2648 as the Secretary considers 
appropriate to allow an individual filling out the form to indicate an 
email address at which the individual may be contacted to receive or be 
connected to benefits or services described in subsection (a).
    (d) Voluntary Participation.--Information on an individual may be 
transmitted to and through a State veterans agency as described in 
subsection (a) only with the consent of the individual. In giving such 
consent, an individual shall specify the following:
        (1) The State veterans agency or agencies elected by the 
    individual to transmit such information as described in subsection 
    (a).
        (2) The benefits and services for which contact information 
    shall be so transmitted.
        (3) Such other information on the individual as the individual 
    considers appropriate in connection with the transmittal.
SEC. 570G. PILOT PROGRAM REGARDING ONLINE APPLICATION FOR THE 
TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.
    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs, and the Secretary of Labor may jointly carry out a 
pilot program that creates a one-stop source for online applications 
for the purposes of assisting members of the Armed Forces and Veterans 
participating in the Transition Assistance Program (in this section 
referred to as ``TAP'').
    (b) Data Sources.--If the Secretaries carry out the pilot program, 
any online application developed under such program shall, in part, 
aggregate existing data from government resources and the private 
sector under one uniform resource locator for the purpose of assisting 
members of the Armed Forces and veterans participating in TAP.
    (c) Availability; Accessibility.--Any online application developed 
under a pilot program shall, to the extent feasible be--
        (1) widely available as a mobile application; and
        (2) easily accessible by veterans, members of the Armed Forces, 
    and employers.
    (d) Assessments.--
        (1) Interim assessments.--Not later than the dates that are one 
    and two years after the date of the commencement of any pilot 
    program under this section, the Secretaries shall jointly assess 
    the pilot program.
        (2) Final assessment.--Not later than the date that is three 
    years after the date of the commencement of any pilot program under 
    this section, the Secretaries shall jointly carry out a final 
    assessment of the pilot program.
        (3) Purpose.--The general objective of each assessment under 
    this subsection shall be to determine if the online application 
    under the pilot program helps participants in TAP to accomplish the 
    goals of TAP, accounting for the individual profiles of 
    participants, including military experience and geographic 
    location.
    (e) Briefing.--If the Secretaries carry out the pilot program, the 
Secretary of Defense shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services 
of the Senate and House of Representatives a briefing on findings 
regarding the pilot program, including any recommendations for 
legislation.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``mobile application'' means a software program 
    that runs on the operating system of a mobile device.
        (2) The term ``mobile device'' means a smartphone, tablet 
    computer, or similar portable computing device that transmits data 
    over a wireless connection.

    Subtitle H--Military Family Readiness and Dependents' Education

    SEC. 571. AUTHORIZING MEMBERS TO TAKE LEAVE FOR A BIRTH OR ADOPTION 
      IN MORE THAN ONE INCREMENT.
    Paragraph (5) of section 701(i) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``only in one increment'' and inserting ``in 
    more than one increment''; and
        (2) by inserting ``in accordance with regulations prescribed by 
    the Secretary concerned'' before the period.
    SEC. 572. DEFERRED DEPLOYMENT FOR MEMBERS WHO GIVE BIRTH.
    Section 701 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(l) A member of the armed forces who gives birth while on active 
duty may be deployed during the period of 12 months beginning on the 
date of such birth only with the approval of a health care provider 
employed at a military medical treatment facility and--
        ``(1) at the election of such member; or
        ``(2) in the interest of national security, as determined by 
    the Secretary of Defense.''.
    SEC. 573. AUTHORITY OF THE SECRETARY CONCERNED TO TRANSPORT REMAINS 
      OF A COVERED DECEDENT TO NO MORE THAN TWO PLACES SELECTED BY THE 
      PERSON DESIGNATED TO DIRECT DISPOSITION OF THE REMAINS.
    (a) Authority.--Section 1482(a)(8) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended to read as follows:
        ``(8)(A) Transportation of the remains, and travel and 
    transportation allowances as specified in regulations prescribed 
    under section 464 of title 37 for an escort of one person, to the 
    place, subject to subparagraph (B), selected by the person 
    designated to direct disposition of the remains or, if such a 
    selection is not made, to a national or other cemetery which is 
    selected by the Secretary and in which burial of the decedent is 
    authorized.
        ``(B) The person designated to direct disposition of the 
    remains may select two places under subparagraph (A) if the second 
    place is a national cemetery. If that person selects two places, 
    the Secretary concerned may pay for transportation to the second 
    place only by means of reimbursement under subsection (b).
        ``(C) When transportation of the remains includes 
    transportation by aircraft under section 562 of the John Warner 
    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 
    109-364; 10 U.S.C. 1482 note), the Secretary concerned shall 
    provide, to the maximum extent practicable, for delivery of the 
    remains by air to the commercial, general aviation, or military 
    airport nearest to the place selected by the designee.''.
    (b) Military Escort and Honor Guard Only to First Location.--
Section 562(b) of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 10 U.S.C. 1482 note) is 
amended by adding at the end the following: ``If the person designated 
to direct disposition of the remains selects two places under such 
section, the term means only the first of those two places.''.
    SEC. 574. MILITARY FUNERAL HONORS MATTERS.
    (a) Full Military Honors Ceremony for Certain Veterans.--Section 
1491(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the 
end the following:
    ``(3) The Secretary concerned shall provide full military honors 
(as determined by the Secretary concerned) for the funeral of a veteran 
who--
        ``(A) is first interred or first inurned in Arlington National 
    Cemetery on or after the date of the enactment of the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020;
        ``(B) was awarded the medal of honor or the prisoner-of-war 
    medal; and
        ``(C) is not entitled to full military honors by the grade of 
    that veteran.''.
    (b) Full Military Funeral Honors for Veterans at Military 
Installations.--
        (1) Installation plans for honors required.--The commander of 
    each military installation at or through which a funeral honors 
    detail for a veteran is provided pursuant to section 1491 of title 
    10, United States Code (as amended by subsection (a)), shall 
    maintain and carry out a plan for the provision, upon request, of 
    full military funeral honors at funerals of veterans for whom a 
    funeral honors detail is authorized in that section.
        (2) Elements.--Each plan of an installation under paragraph (1) 
    shall include the following:
            (A) Mechanisms to ensure compliance with the requirements 
        applicable to the composition of funeral honors details in 
        section 1491(b) of title 10, United States Code (as so 
        amended).
            (B) Mechanisms to ensure compliance with the requirements 
        for ceremonies for funerals in section 1491(c) of such title.
            (C) In addition to the ceremonies required pursuant to 
        subparagraph (B), the provision of a gun salute, if otherwise 
        authorized, for each funeral by appropriate personnel, 
        including personnel of the installation, members of the reserve 
        components of the Armed Forces residing in the vicinity of the 
        installation who are ordered to funeral honors duty, or members 
        of veterans organizations or other organizations referred to in 
        section 1491(b)(2) of such title.
            (D) Mechanisms for the provision of support authorized by 
        section 1491(d) of such title.
            (E) Such other mechanisms and activities as the Secretary 
        concerned considers appropriate in order to assure that full 
        military funeral honors are provided upon request at funerals 
        of veterans.
        (3) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            (A) The term ``Secretary concerned'' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 101(a)(9) of title 10, United States Code.
            (B) The term ``veteran'' has the meaning given that term in 
        section 1491(h) of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 575. IMPROVEMENT OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE PORTABILITY FOR 
      RELOCATED SPOUSES OF MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES.
    Section 1784 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(h) Improvement of Occupational License Portability Through 
Interstate Compacts.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter 
    into a cooperative agreement with the Council of State Governments 
    to assist with funding of the development of interstate compacts on 
    licensed occupations in order to alleviate the burden associated 
    with relicensing in such an occupation by spouse of a members of 
    the armed forces in connection with a permanent change of duty 
    station of members to another State.
        ``(2) Limitation on assistance per compact.--The amount 
    provided under paragraph (1) as assistance for the development of 
    any particular interstate compact may not exceed $1,000,000.
        ``(3) Limitation on total amount of assistance.--The total 
    amount of assistance provided under paragraph (1) in any fiscal 
    year may not exceed $4,000,000.
        ``(4) Annual report.--Not later than February 28 each year, the 
    Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
    Senate and the House of Representatives a report on interstate 
    compacts described in paragraph (1) developed through assistance 
    provided under that paragraph. Each report shall set forth the 
    following:
            ``(A) Any interstate compact developed during the preceding 
        calendar year, including the occupational licenses covered by 
        such compact and the States agreeing to enter into such 
        compact.
            ``(B) Any interstate compact developed during a prior 
        calendar year into which one or more additional States agreed 
        to enter during the preceding calendar year.
        ``(5) Expiration.--The authority to enter into a cooperative 
    agreement under paragraph (1), and to provide assistance described 
    in that paragraph pursuant to such cooperative agreement, expire on 
    September 30, 2024.''.
    SEC. 576. CONTINUED ELIGIBILITY FOR EDUCATION AND TRAINING 
      OPPORTUNITIES FOR SPOUSES OF PROMOTED MEMBERS.
    Section 1784a(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``Assistance''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) A spouse who is eligible for a program under this section and 
begins a course of education or training for a degree, license, or 
credential described in subsection (a) may not become ineligible to 
complete such course of education or training solely because the member 
to whom the spouse is married is promoted to a higher grade.''.
    SEC. 577. MODIFICATION TO AUTHORITY TO REIMBURSE FOR STATE 
      LICENSURE AND CERTIFICATION COSTS OF A SPOUSE OF A SERVICEMEMBER 
      ARISING FROM RELOCATION.
    Section 476(p) of title 37, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``armed forces'' and 
    inserting ``uniformed services'';
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``$500'' and inserting 
    ``$1,000'';
        (3) in paragraph (3)--
            (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and'';
            (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
        ``(C) an analysis of whether the maximum reimbursement amount 
    under paragraph (2) is sufficient to cover the average costs of 
    relicensing described in paragraph (1).''; and
        (4) in paragraph (4), by striking ``December 31, 2022'' and 
    inserting ``December 31, 2024''.
    SEC. 578. CLARIFICATION REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO TRANSFER 
      ENTITLEMENT UNDER POST-9/11 EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.
    Section 3319(j) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) The Secretary of Defense may not prescribe any regulation 
that would provide for a limitation on eligibility to transfer unused 
education benefits to family members based on a maximum number of years 
of service in the Armed Forces.''.
    SEC. 579. ANNUAL STATE REPORT CARD.
    Section 1111(h)(1)(C)(ii) of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6311(h)(1)(C)(ii)) is amended by striking ``on 
active duty (as defined in section 101(d)(5) of such title)''.
    SEC. 580. IMPROVEMENTS TO CHILD CARE FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
      FORCES.
    (a) Clarifying Technical Amendment to Direct Hire Authority of the 
Department of Defense for Child Care Services Providers for Department 
Child Development Centers.--Section 559(e) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 10 U.S.C. 
1792 note) is amended by inserting ``(including family childcare 
coordinator services and school age childcare coordinator services)'' 
after ``childcare services''.
    (b) Assessment of Financial Assistance Provided to Civilian Child 
Care Providers.--
        (1) Assessment.--The Secretary of Defense shall assess the 
    maximum amount of financial assistance provided to eligible 
    civilian providers of child care services or youth program services 
    that furnish such service for members of the armed forces and 
    employees of the United States under section 1798 of title 10, 
    United States Code. Such assessment shall include the following:
            (A) The determination of the Secretary whether the maximum 
        allowable financial assistance should be standardized across 
        the Armed Forces.
            (B) Whether the maximum allowable amount adequately 
        accounts for high-cost duty stations.
        (2) Report.--Not later than June 1, 2020, the Secretary of 
    Defense shall submit a report to the Committees on Armed Services 
    of the Senate and the House of Representatives regarding the 
    results of the assessment under paragraph (1) and any actions taken 
    by the Secretary to remedy identified shortfalls in assistance 
    described in that paragraph.
    (c) Reduction in Wait Lists for Child Care at Military 
Installations.--
        (1) Remedial action.--The Secretary of Defense shall take steps 
    the Secretary determines necessary to reduce the waiting lists for 
    child care at military installations to ensure that members of the 
    Armed Forces have meaningful access to child care during tours of 
    duty.
        (2) Report.--Not later than June 1, 2020, the Secretary of 
    Defense shall provide a report to the Committees on Armed Forces of 
    the Senate and the House of Representative regarding--
            (A) action taken under paragraph (1); and
            (B) any additional resources (including additional funding 
        for and child care facilities and workers) the Secretary 
        determines necessary to increase access described in paragraph 
        (1).
    (d) GAO Review.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
conduct a review of the assessments, actions, and determinations of the 
Secretary under subsections (b)(1) and (c). Not later than December 1, 
2020, the Comptroller General shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
regarding the review performed under this subsection.
    (e) Assessment of Accessibility of Websites of the Department of 
Defense Related to Child Care and Spousal Employment.--
        (1) Assessment.--The Secretary of Defense shall review the 
    functions and accessibility of websites of the Department of 
    Defense designed for members of the Armed Forces and the families 
    of such members to access information and services offered by the 
    Department regarding child care, spousal employment, and other 
    family matters.
        (2) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2020, the Secretary of 
    Defense shall provide a briefing to the Committees on Armed 
    Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives regarding 
    the results of the assessment under paragraph (1) and actions taken 
    to enhance accessibility of the websites.
    (f) Portability of Background Investigations for Child Care 
Providers.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the background 
investigation and training certification for a child care provider 
employed by the Department of Defense in a facility of the Department 
may be transferred to another facility of the Department, without 
regard to which Secretary of a military department has jurisdiction 
over either such facility.
SEC. 580A. TRANSPORTATION OF REMAINS OF CASUALTIES; TRAVEL EXPENSES FOR 
NEXT OF KIN.
    (a) Transportation for Remains of a Member Who Dies Not in a 
Theater of Combat Operations.--Section 562 of the John Warner National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 10 
U.S.C. 1482 note), as amended by section 573 of this Act, is further 
amended--
        (1) in the heading, by striking ``dying in a theater of combat 
    operations''; and
        (2) in subsection (a), by striking ``in a combat theater of 
    operations'' and inserting ``outside of the United States''.
    (b) Transportation for Family.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
extend travel privileges via Invitational Travel Authorization to 
family members of members of the Armed Forces who die outside of the 
United States and whose remains are returned to the United States 
through the mortuary facility at Dover Air Force Base, Delaware.
SEC. 580B. MEETINGS OF OFFICIALS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE WITH 
REPRESENTATIVE GROUPS OF SURVIVORS OF DECEASED MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
FORCES.
    (a) Chiefs of the Armed Forces.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
direct the chiefs of the Armed Forces to meet periodically with 
representative groups of survivors of deceased members of the Armed 
Forces to receive feedback from those survivors regarding issues 
affecting such survivors. The Chief of the National Guard Bureau shall 
meet with representative groups of survivors of deceased members of the 
Air National Guard and the Army National Guard.
    (b) Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness.--The 
Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness shall meet 
periodically with representative groups of survivors of deceased 
members of the Armed Forces to discuss policies of the Department of 
Defense regarding military casualties and Gold Star families.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than April 1, 2020, the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Personnel and Readiness shall brief the Committee on Armed 
Services of the House of Representatives regarding policies established 
and the results of the meetings under subsection (b).
SEC. 580C. INFORMATION AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR REGISTRATION FOR VOTING 
AND ABSENTEE BALLOT REQUESTS FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES UNDERGOING 
DEPLOYMENT OVERSEAS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 45 days prior to a general election 
for Federal office, a member of the Armed Forces shall, upon request, 
be provided with the following:
        (1) A Federal write-in absentee ballot prescribed pursuant to 
    section 103 of the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting 
    Act (52 U.S.C. 20303), together with instructions on the 
    appropriate use of the ballot with respect to the State in which 
    the member is registered to vote.
        (2) In the case of a member intending to vote in a State that 
    does not accept the Federal write-in absentee ballot as a 
    simultaneous application and acceptable ballot for Federal 
    elections, instructions on, and an opportunity to fill out, the 
    official post card form for absentee voter registration application 
    and absentee ballot application prescribed under section 101(b)(2) 
    of the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act (52 
    U.S.C. 20301(b)(2)).
    (b) Personnel Responsible of Discharge.--Ballots and instructions 
pursuant to paragraph (1) of subsection (a), and briefings and forms 
pursuant to paragraph (2) of such subsection, shall be provided by 
Voting Assistance Officers or such other personnel as the Secretary of 
the military department concerned shall designate.
SEC. 580D. STUDY ON TWO-WAY MILITARY BALLOT BARCODE TRACKING.
    (a) Study.--The Director of the Federal Voting Assistance Program 
of the Department of Defense shall conduct a study on the feasibility 
of a pilot program providing full ballot tracking of overseas military 
absentee ballots through the mail stream in a manner that is similar to 
the 2016 Military Ballot Tracking Pilot Program conducted by the 
Federal Voting Assistance Program.
    (b) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to Congress a report 
on the results of the study conducted under subsection (a). The report 
shall include--
        (1) an estimate of the costs and requirements needed to conduct 
    the pilot program described in subsection (a);
        (2) a description of the organizations that would provide 
    substantial support for the pilot program;
        (3) a time line for the phased implementation of the pilot 
    program to all military personnel actively serving overseas;
        (4) a method to determine under the pilot program if a ballot 
    was counted, and a way to provide such information to the member of 
    the Armed Forces casting the vote; and
        (5) a description of the efforts being undertaken to ensure a 
    reliable and secure military ballot tracking system.
SEC. 580E. ASSISTANCE TO SCHOOLS WITH MILITARY DEPENDENT STUDENTS.
    (a) Impact Aid for Children With Severe Disabilities.--
        (1) In general.--Of the amount authorized to be appropriated 
    for fiscal year 2020 by section 301 and available for operation and 
    maintenance for Defense-wide activities as specified in the funding 
    table in section 4301, $10,000,000 shall be available for payments 
    under section 363 of the Floyd D. Spence National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (Public Law 106-398; 20 
    U.S.C. 7703a).
        (2) Use of certain amount.--Of the amount available under 
    paragraph (1) for payments as described in that paragraph, 
    $5,000,000 shall be available for such payments to local 
    educational agencies determined by the Secretary of Defense, in the 
    discretion of the Secretary, to have higher concentrations of 
    military children with severe disabilities.
    (b) Assistance to Schools With Significant Numbers of Military 
Dependent Students.--Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for 
fiscal year 2020 by section 301 and available for operation and 
maintenance for Defense-wide activities as specified in the funding 
table in section 4301, $40,000,000 shall be available only for the 
purpose of providing assistance to local educational agencies under 
subsection (a) of section 572 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163; 20 U.S.C. 7703b).
    (c) Local Educational Agency Defined.--In this section, the term 
``local educational agency'' has the meaning given that term in section 
7013(9) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 
U.S.C. 7713(9)).
SEC. 580F. FIRST EXPANSION OF THE MY CAREER ADVANCEMENT ACCOUNT PROGRAM 
FOR MILITARY SPOUSES.
    The Secretary of Defense shall modify the My Career Advancement 
Account program of the Department of Defense to ensure that military 
spouses participating in the program may receive financial assistance 
for the pursuit of a license, certification, or Associate's degree in 
any career field or occupation.
SEC. 580G. SECOND EXPANSION OF THE MY CAREER ADVANCEMENT ACCOUNT 
PROGRAM FOR MILITARY SPOUSES.
    The spouse of a member of the Coast Guard may participate in the My 
Career Advancement Account program of the Department of Defense if the 
Coast Guard reimburses the Department of Defense.
SEC. 580H. REPORT ON TRAINING AND SUPPORT AVAILABLE TO MILITARY 
SPOUSES.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and 
Readiness shall submit to the committees on Armed Services of the 
Senate and the House of Representatives a report that includes a 
description of the following:
        (1) Financial literacy programs currently designed specifically 
    for military spouses.
        (2) Efforts to evaluate the effectiveness of financial literacy 
    programs.
    (b) Public Availability.--The report submitted under subsection (a) 
shall be made available on a publicly accessible website of the 
Department of Defense.
SEC. 580I. RI'KATAK GUEST STUDENT PROGRAM AT UNITED STATES ARMY 
GARRISON-KWAJALEIN ATOLL.
    (a) Program Authorized.--The Secretary of the Army may conduct an 
assistance program to educate up to five local national students per 
grade, per academic year, on a space-available basis at the contractor-
operated schools on United States Army GarrisonUKwajalein Atoll. The 
program shall be known as the ``Ri'katak Guest Student Program''.
    (b) Student Assistance.--Assistance that may be provided to 
students participating in the program carried out pursuant to 
subsection (a) includes the following:
        (1) Classroom instruction.
        (2) Extracurricular activities.
        (3) Student meals.
        (4) Transportation.

                   Subtitle I--Decorations and Awards

    SEC. 581. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITIES ON ELIGIBILITY FOR AND 
      REPLACEMENT OF GOLD STAR LAPEL BUTTONS.
    (a) Expansion of Authority To Determine Next of Kin for Issuance.--
Section 1126 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``widows, parents, and'' in 
    the matter preceding paragraph (1);
        (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``the widow and to each 
    parent and'' and inserting ``each''; and
        (3) in subsection (d)--
            (A) by striking paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) and 
        inserting the following new paragraph (1):
        ``(1) The term `next of kin' means individuals standing in such 
    relationship to members of the armed forces described in subsection 
    (a) as the Secretaries concerned shall jointly specify in 
    regulations for purposes of this section.''; and
            (B) by redesignating paragraphs (5), (6), (7), and (8) as 
        paragraphs (2), (3), (4), and (5), respectively.
    (b) Replacement.--Subsection (c) of such section is amended by 
striking ``and payment'' and all that follows and inserting ``and 
without cost.''.
    SEC. 582. STANDARDIZATION OF HONORABLE SERVICE REQUIREMENT FOR 
      AWARD OF MILITARY DECORATIONS.
    (a) Honorable Service Requirement.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 57 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 1136. Honorable service requirement for award of military 
    decorations
    ``No military decoration, including a medal, cross, or bar, or an 
associated emblem or insignia, may be awarded or presented to any 
person, or to a representative of the person, if the service of the 
person after the person distinguished himself or herself has not been 
honorable.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 57 of such title is amended by adding at the end the 
    following:

``1136. Honorable service requirement for award of military 
          decorations.''.

    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Title 10, United States Code, is 
further amended as follows:
        (1) In section 7274--
            (A) in subsection (b), in the matter preceding paragraph 
        (1), by striking ``subsection (d)'' and inserting ``subsection 
        (c)'';
            (B) by striking subsection (c); and
            (C) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (c).
        (2)(A) Section 8299 is repealed.
        (B) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 837 is 
    amended by striking the item relating to section 8299.
        (3) In section 9274--
            (A) in subsection (b), in the matter preceding paragraph 
        (1), by striking ``subsection (d)'' and inserting ``subsection 
        (c)'';
            (B) by striking subsection (c); and
            (C) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (c).
        (4) In section 9279, by striking subsection (c).
    SEC. 583. AUTHORIZATION FOR AWARD OF THE MEDAL OF HONOR TO JOHN J. 
      DUFFY FOR ACTS OF VALOR IN VIETNAM.
    (a) Waiver of Time Limitations.--Notwithstanding the time 
limitations specified in section 7274 of title 10, United States Code, 
or any other time limitation with respect to the awarding of certain 
medals to persons who served in the Armed Forces, the President may 
award the Medal of Honor under section 7271 of such title to John J. 
Duffy for the acts of valor in Vietnam described in subsection (b).
    (b) Acts of Valor Described.--The acts of valor referred to in 
subsection (a) are the actions of John J. Duffy on April 14 and 15, 
1972, in Vietnam for which he was previously awarded the Distinguished-
Service Cross.
    SEC. 584. REVIEW OF WORLD WAR I VALOR MEDALS.
    (a) Review Required.--Each Secretary concerned shall review the 
service records of World War I veterans described in subsection (b) 
under the jurisdiction of such Secretary in order to determine whether 
any such veteran should be awarded the Medal of Honor for valor during 
World War I.
    (b) Covered World War I Veterans.--The World War I veterans whose 
service records may be reviewed under subsection (a) are the following:
        (1) African American war veterans, Asian American war veterans, 
    Hispanic American war veterans, Jewish American war veterans, and 
    Native American war veterans who were awarded the Distinguished 
    Service Cross or the Navy Cross for an action that occurred between 
    April 6, 1917, and November 11, 1918.
        (2) African American war veterans, Asian American war veterans, 
    Hispanic American war veterans, Jewish American war veterans, and 
    Native American war veterans who were awarded the Croix de Guerre 
    with Palm (that is, awarded at the Army level or above) by the 
    Government of France for an action that occurred between April 6, 
    1917, and November 11, 1918.
        (3) African American war veterans, Asian American war veterans, 
    Hispanic American war veterans, Jewish American war veterans, and 
    Native American war veterans who were recommended for a Medal of 
    Honor for actions that occurred from April 6, 1917, to November 11, 
    1918, if the Department of Defense possesses or receives records 
    relating to such recommendation.
    (c) Recommendation Based on Review.--If a Secretary concerned 
determines, based upon the review under subsection (a), that the award 
of the Medal of Honor to a covered World War I veteran is warranted, 
such Secretary shall submit to the President a recommendation that the 
President award the Medal of Honor to that veteran.
    (d) Authority To Award Medal of Honor.--The Medal of Honor may be 
awarded to a World War I veteran in accordance with a recommendation of 
a Secretary concerned under subsection (c).
    (e) Waiver of Time Limitations.--An award of the Medal of Honor may 
be made under subsection (d) without regard to--
        (1) section 7274 or 8298 of title 10, United States Code, as 
    applicable; and
        (2) any regulation or other administrative restriction on--
            (A) the time for awarding the Medal of Honor; or
            (B) the awarding of the Medal of Honor for service for 
        which a Distinguished Service Cross or Navy Cross has been 
        awarded.
    (f) Deadline.--The review under subsection (a) shall terminate not 
later than five years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (g) Definitions.--
        (1) In general.--In this section:
            (A) African american war veteran.--The term ``African 
        American war veteran'' means any person who served in the 
        United States Armed Forces between April 6, 1917, and November 
        11, 1918, and who identified himself as of African descent on 
        his military personnel records.
            (B) Asian american war veteran.--The term ``Asian American 
        war veteran'' means any person who served in the United States 
        Armed Forces between April 6, 1917, and November 11, 1918, and 
        who identified himself racially, nationally, or ethnically as 
        originating from a country in Asia on his military personnel 
        records.
            (C) Hispanic american war veteran.--The term ``Hispanic 
        American war veteran'' means any person who served in the 
        United States Armed Forces between April 6, 1917, and November 
        11, 1918, and who identified himself racially, nationally, or 
        ethnically as originating from a country where Spanish is an 
        official language on his military personnel records.
            (D) Jewish american war veteran.--The term ``Jewish 
        American war veteran'' mean any person who served in the United 
        States Armed Forces between April 6, 1917, and November 11, 
        1918, and who identified himself as Jewish on his military 
        personnel records.
            (E) Native american war veteran.--The term ``Native 
        American war veteran'' means any person who served in the 
        United States Armed Forces between April 6, 1917, and November 
        11, 1918, and who identified himself as a member of a federally 
        recognized tribe within the modern territory of the United 
        States on his military personnel records.
            (F) Secretary concerned.--The term ``Secretary concerned'' 
        means--
                (i) the Secretary of the Army, in the case of members 
            of the Armed Forces who served in the Army between April 6, 
            1917, and November 11, 1918; and
                (ii) the Secretary of the Navy, in the case of members 
            of the Armed Forces who served in the Navy or the Marine 
            Corps between April 6, 1917, and November 11, 1918.
        (2) Application of definitions of origin.--If the military 
    personnel records of a person do not reflect the person's 
    membership in one of the groups identified in subparagraphs (B) 
    through (F) of paragraph (1) but historical evidence exists that 
    demonstrates the person's Jewish faith held at the time of service, 
    or that the person identified himself as of African, Asian, 
    Hispanic, or Native American descent, the person may be treated as 
    being a member of the applicable group by the Secretary concerned 
    for purposes of this section.

          Subtitle J--Miscellaneous Reports and Other Matters

    SEC. 591. CLARIFICATION OF THE TERM ``ASSAULT'' FOR PURPOSES OF 
      WORKPLACE AND GENDER RELATIONS SURVEYS.
    (a) Surveys of Members of the Armed Forces.--Section 481 of title 
10, United States Code, is amended by inserting ``(including unwanted 
sexual contact)'' after ``assault'' each place it appears.
    (b) Surveys of Civilian Employees of the Department of Defense.--
Section 481a of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
``(including unwanted sexual contact)'' after ``assault'' each place it 
appears.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) 
shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act and shall 
apply with respect to surveys under sections 481 and 481a of title 10, 
United States Code, that are initiated after such date.
    SEC. 592. INCLUSION OF CERTAIN VETERANS ON TEMPORARY DISABILITY OR 
      PERMANENT DISABLED RETIREMENT LISTS IN MILITARY ADAPTIVE SPORTS 
      PROGRAMS.
    (a) Inclusion of Certain Veterans.--Subsection (a)(1) of section 
2564a of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``for 
members of the armed forces who'' and all that follows through the 
period at the end and inserting the following: ``for--
            ``(A) any member of the armed forces who is eligible to 
        participate in adaptive sports because of an injury, illness, 
        or wound incurred in the line of duty in the armed forces; and
            ``(B) any veteran (as defined in section 101 of title 38), 
        during the one-year period following the veteran's date of 
        separation, who--
                ``(i) is on the Temporary Disability Retirement List or 
            Permanently Disabled Retirement List;
                ``(ii) is eligible to participate in adaptive sports 
            because of an injury, illness, or wound incurred in the 
            line of duty in the armed forces; and
                ``(iii) was enrolled in the program authorized under 
            this section prior to the veteran's date of separation.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Subsection (b) of such section is 
amended by inserting ``and veterans'' after ``members''.
    (c) Clerical Amendments.--
        (1) Heading amendment.--The heading of such section is amended 
    to read as follows:
``Sec. 2564a. Provision of assistance for adaptive sports programs: 
     members of the armed forces; certain veterans''.
        (2) Table of section.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 152 of such title is amended by striking the item 
    relating to section 2564a and inserting the following new item:

``2564a. Provision of assistance for adaptive sports programs: members 
          of the armed forces; certain veterans.''.
    SEC. 593. QUESTIONS IN SURVEYS REGARDING EXTREMIST ACTIVITY IN THE 
      WORKPLACE.
    The Secretary of Defense shall include in appropriate surveys 
administered by the Department of Defense questions regarding whether 
respondents have ever--
        (1) experienced or witnessed extremist activity in the 
    workplace; or
        (2) reported such activity.
    SEC. 594. STUDY ON BEST PRACTICES FOR PROVIDING FINANCIAL LITERACY 
      EDUCATION FOR SEPARATING MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Study Required.--The Secretary of Defense, and with respect to 
members of the Coast Guard, in coordination with the Secretary of the 
Department in which the Coast Guard is operating when it is not 
operating as a service in the Navy, shall conduct a study on the best 
practices to provide financial literacy education for separating 
members of the Armed Forces.
    (b) Elements.--The study required by subsection (a) shall include--
        (1) an examination, recommendations, and reporting on best 
    practices for providing financial literacy education to separating 
    members of the Armed Forces; and
        (2) detailed current financial literacy programs for separating 
    members of the Armed Forces.
    (c) Consultation.--In conducting the study required by subsection 
(a), the Secretaries shall consult with the Financial Literacy and 
Education Commission of the Department of the Treasury.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on the study under subsection (a).
    (e) Financial Literacy Defined.--In this section, the term 
``financial literacy'' means education regarding personal finance 
including the insurance, credit, loan, banking, career training and 
education benefits available to veterans.
    SEC. 595. REPORT ON OVERSIGHT OF AUTHORIZED STRENGTHS OF CERTAIN 
      GRADES OF COMMISSIONED REGULAR AND RESERVE OFFICERS OF THE ARMED 
      FORCES.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than April 1, 2020, the Secretary 
of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
Senate and the House of Representatives a report on oversight of the 
authorized strengths of commissioned regular officers of the Armed 
Forces and commissioned reserve officers of the Armed Forces in the 
grades as follows:
        (1) The grades of major, lieutenant colonel, and colonel in the 
    Army, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps.
        (2) The grades of lieutenant commander, commander, and captain 
    in the Navy.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) Such recommendations as the Secretary considers appropriate 
    on mechanisms to improve Department of Defense oversight, and 
    oversight by Congress, of the authorized strengths of commissioned 
    officers in the grades specified in subsection (a), including the 
    following:
            (A) An analysis of the history of each military department 
        in complying with the authorized strengths and strengths in 
        grade specified in sections 523 and 12005 of title 10, United 
        States Code, including a description of--
                (i) the number of officers in each grade and Armed 
            Force concerned as of the end of each fiscal year between 
            fiscal year 2010 and fiscal year 2019; and
                (ii) the number of officers authorized for such grade 
            and Armed Force as of the end of such fiscal year under the 
            applicable section.
            (B) An assessment of the feasibility and advisability of 
        submitting to Congress each year a request for an authorization 
        for officers serving in the grades currently covered by the 
        tables in section 523 of title 10, United States Code.
            (C) An assessment of the feasibility and advisability of 
        submitting to Congress each year a proposal for legislation to 
        update the tables in such section.
            (D) An assessment of the advisability of converting the 
        authorization for end strengths for regular officers in the 
        grades specified in subsection (a) to a percentage-based 
        approach like that currently utilized for reserve officers in 
        section 12005 of title 10, United States Code.
        (2) Such other recommendations as the Secretary considers 
    appropriate to improve the effectiveness of the oversight by 
    Congress of the number of commissioned regular and reserve officers 
    of the Armed Forces in the grades specified in subsection (a).
    SEC. 596. REPORT ON CERTAIN WAIVERS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter during the two 
subsequent calendar years, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate a report identifying, with respect to the reporting period for 
such report, and disaggregated by Armed Force, the following:
        (1) Accession and commission.--
            (A) The number of individuals who were processed by a 
        Secretary of a military department for a medical accession or 
        commissioning qualification determination on or after April 12, 
        2019.
            (B) Of the individuals described in subparagraph (A), the 
        number of such individuals who were found medically 
        disqualified pursuant to the standards established in DTM-19-
        004 regarding enlistment in or commission as an officer of an 
        Armed Force under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of a 
        military department.
            (C) Of the individuals described in subparagraph (A), the 
        number of such individuals--
                (i) described in section I.b.(1), 1.b(2), 1.b(3), or 
            II.b.(1) of attachment 3 to DTM-19-004; and
                (ii) who did not require a waiver or exception to 
            standards described in subparagraph (B).
            (D) Of the individuals described in subparagraph (C), the 
        number of such individuals who enlisted or were commissioned.
            (E) Of the individuals described in subparagraph (B), the 
        number of such individuals who were considered for a waiver or 
        exception to standards described in subparagraph (B).
            (F) Of the individuals described in subparagraph (E), the 
        number of such individuals who were denied such a waiver or 
        exception.
            (G) Of the individuals described in subparagraph (E), the 
        number of such individuals who received such a waiver or 
        exception.
            (H) Of the individuals described in subparagraph (G), the 
        number of such individuals who enlisted or were commissioned.
        (2) Retention.--
            (A) The number of members of each Armed Force under the 
        jurisdiction of the Secretary of a military department who 
        received a diagnosis of gender dysphoria on or after April 12, 
        2019.
            (B) Of the members described in subparagraph (A), the 
        number of members who were--
                (i) referred to the Disability Evaluation System; or
                (ii) subject to processing for administrative 
            separation based on conditions and circumstances not 
            constituting a physical disability that interfered with 
            assignment to or performance of duty.
            (C) Of the members described in subparagraph (A), the 
        number of members who were subsequently considered for a waiver 
        or exception to standards established in DTM-19-004 to permit 
        those members to serve in other than the biological sex of each 
        such member.
            (D) Of the members described in subparagraph (C), the 
        number of members who were granted such a waiver or exception.
            (E) Of the members described in subparagraph (C), the 
        number of members who were denied such a waiver or exception.
            (F) Of the members described in subparagraph (E), the 
        number of members who were discharged because of such denial, 
        aggregated by characterization of discharge.
    (b) Protection of Certain Information.--No report submitted under 
this section may contain any personally identifiable information or 
protected health information of any individual.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``DTM-19-004'' means the memorandum--
            (A) issued by the Office of the Deputy Secretary of 
        Defense;
            (B) dated March 12, 2019; and
            (C) with the subject heading ``Directive-type Memorandum 
        (DTM)-19-004-Military Service by Transgender Persons and 
        Persons with Gender Dysphoria''.
        (2) The terms ``exempt individuals'' and ``nonexempt 
    individuals'' have the meanings given those terms in attachment 3 
    to DTM-19-004.
        (3) The term ``reporting period'' means, with respect to a 
    report submitted under subsection (a), the calendar year most 
    recently completed before the date on which such report is to be 
    submitted.
    SEC. 597. NOTIFICATIONS ON MANNING OF AFLOAT NAVAL FORCES.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Navy shall notify the 
congressional defense committees, in writing, not later than 30 days 
after the end of each fiscal year quarter, of each covered ship (if 
any) that met either condition as follows:
        (1) The manning fit for such ship was less than 87 percent for 
    more than 14 days during such fiscal year quarter.
        (2) The manning fill for such ship was less than 90 percent for 
    more than 14 days during such fiscal year quarter.
    (b) Elements.--The notification required by subsection (a) shall 
include, with respect to a covered ship, the following:
        (1) The name and hull number of the ship.
        (2) The homeport location of the ship.
        (3) The current manning fit and fill of the ship.
        (4) If the lowest level of manning fit or manning fill for the 
    ship occurred during the fiscal year quarter concerned, the level 
    concerned and the date on which such level occurred.
        (5) If the lowest level of manning fit or manning fill for the 
    ship is projected to occur after the fiscal year quarter concerned, 
    the projected level and the date on which such level is projected 
    to occur.
        (6) If not achieved as of the date of the notification the 
    projected date on which the Navy will achieve a manning fit and 
    fill at least 87 percent and 90 percent, respectively, for the 
    ship.
        (7) If not achieved as of the date of the notification, the 
    projected date on which the Navy will achieve a manning fit and 
    fill of at least 92 percent and 95 percent, respectively, for the 
    ship.
        (8) A description of the reasons the Navy has not achieved, or 
    will not achieve, as applicable, manning fit and fill of at least 
    87 percent and 90 percent, respectively, for the ship, including a 
    detailed description of the specific ratings or skillset areas that 
    must be manned to achieve those percentages.
        (9) A description of corrective actions the Navy is taking to 
    improve manning fit or manning fill on the ship.
    (c) Special Rule.--For purposes of determining whether a percentage 
of manning fit or manning fill has been achieved, a sailor in a more 
senior paygrade may count as filling the billet of a more junior 
paygrade, but a sailor in a more junior paygrade may not count as 
filling the billet of a more senior paygrade.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Manning fit.--The term ``manning fit'', in the case of a 
    ship, means the skills (rating), specialty skills (Navy Enlisted 
    Classifications), and experience (paygrade) for the ship when 
    compared with the ship manpower document requirement and billets 
    authorized for such skills and experience.
        (2) Manning fill.--The term ``manning fill'', in the case of a 
    ship, means the total number of military personnel assigned to the 
    ship by rating when compared with the ship manpower document 
    requirement and billets authorized for the ship by rating.
        (3) Covered ship.--The term ``covered ship'' means a 
    commissioned battle force ship that is included in the battle force 
    count of the Naval Vessel Register.
    (e) Sunset.--The requirement to submit notifications under 
subsection (a) with respect to fiscal year quarters shall cease 
beginning with fiscal year quarters in fiscal year 2025.
    (f) Repeal of Superseded Requirements.--Section 525 of the John S. 
McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public 
Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1757; 10 U.S.C. 8013 note) is repealed.
    SEC. 598. REPORT REGARDING USE OF AERIAL SYSTEMS OF THE DEPARTMENT 
      OF DEFENSE TO SUPPORT AGENCIES OF STATES, TERRITORIES, AND THE 
      FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with 
the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, shall submit to the Committees 
on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate a 
report regarding the requirements, policies, and procedures governing 
the use of manned and unmanned aerial systems of the Department of 
Defense to support State and Federal agencies.
    (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
        (1) A description of requirements for providing support to 
    State and Federal agencies that the Secretary considers appropriate 
    for planning, programming and budgeting resources.
        (2) A description of manned and unmanned aerial systems that 
    the Secretary regularly provides to support State and Federal 
    agencies, including examples of support provided, and length of 
    time to approve requests.
        (3) A list of requests for such aerial systems from State and 
    Federal agencies during fiscal year 2019 that the Secretary denied 
    and the reason each such request was disapproved.
        (4) An overview of current policies and procedures governing 
    the use of such aerial systems by States and Federal agencies, 
    including--
            (A) procedures a State or Federal agency must follow to 
        obtain use of such aerial systems for natural disasters and 
        search and rescue operations;
            (B) the typical amount of time needed to process such 
        requests, and whether such procedures can be streamlined; and
            (C) to what extent different policies and procedures apply 
        to unmanned aerial systems versus manned aerial systems.
        (5) A description of the different categories of unmanned 
    aerial systems of the Department of Defense, how such categories 
    are managed, and whether the criteria for such categories affect 
    the ability of the Secretary to use unmanned aerial systems to 
    support State or Federal agencies.
        (6) An explanation of any restrictions on the use of such 
    unmanned aerial systems under--
            (A) the ``Guidance for the Domestic Use of Unmanned 
        Aircraft Systems in U.S. National Airspace'', dated August 18, 
        2018;
            (B) Department of Defense Instruction 3025.18 ``Defense 
        Support to Civil Authorities''; and
            (C) other relevant guidance of the Department of Defense.
        (7) Whether restrictions described in paragraph (6) apply 
    differently to regular members of the Armed Forces serving on 
    active duty and to members of the National Guard.
        (8) Whether members of the National Guard may operate the 
    different categories of such unmanned aerial systems when operating 
    under section 502(f) of title 32, United States Code.
        (9) An analysis of how the Secretary may improve access to and 
    knowledge of States and Federal agencies regarding the availability 
    of such unmanned aerial systems and related request procedures.
        (10) Whether--
            (A) the Secretary has been unable to provide an unmanned 
        aerial system to support to a State agency at the request of 
        such State agency; and
            (B) the Secretary has plans to make more unmanned aerial 
        systems available to fulfil such requests.
        (11) Any other matters the Secretary determines appropriate.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (d) State Defined.--In this section, the term ``State'' has the 
meaning given that term in section 901 of title 32, United States Code.
    SEC. 599. INFORMATION FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES ON 
      AVAILABILITY OF SERVICES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS 
      RELATING TO SEXUAL TRAUMA.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall inform members of 
the Armed Forces, using mechanisms available to the Secretary, of the 
eligibility of such members for services of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs relating to sexual trauma.
    (b) Information From Sexual Assault Response Coordinators.--The 
Secretary of Defense shall ensure--
        (1) that Sexual Assault Response Coordinators and uniformed 
    victims advocates of the Department of Defense advise members of 
    the Armed Forces who report instances of sexual trauma regarding 
    the eligibility of such members for services at the Department of 
    Veterans Affairs; and
        (2) that such information is included in mandatory training 
    materials.
    (c) Sexual Trauma Defined.--In this section, the term ``sexual 
trauma'' means psychological trauma described in section 1720D(a)(1) of 
title 38, United States Code.
SEC. 599A. AUTHORITY TO ISSUE AN HONORARY PROMOTION TO COLONEL CHARLES 
E. MCGEE, UNITED STATES AIR FORCE (RET.), TO THE GRADE OF BRIGADIER 
GENERAL.
    (a) In General.--Pursuant to section 1563 of title 10, United 
States Code, the President may issue to Colonel Charles E. McGee, 
United States Air Force (retired), a distinguished Tuskegee Airman, an 
honorary promotion to the grade of brigadier general.
    (b) Additional Benefits Not to Accrue.--The advancement of Charles 
E. McGee on the retired list of the Air Force under subsection (a) 
shall not affect the retired pay or other benefits from the United 
States to which Charles E. McGee is entitled based upon his military 
service, or affect any benefits to which any other person is or may 
become entitled based on such military service.
SEC. 599B. AUTHORITY TO ISSUE AN HONORARY AND POSTHUMOUS PROMOTION TO 
LIEUTENANT COLONEL RICHARD COLE, UNITED STATES AIR FORCE (RET.), TO THE 
GRADE OF COLONEL.
    (a) In General.--Pursuant to section 1563 of title 10, United 
States Code, the President may issue to Lieutenant Colonel Richard E. 
Cole, United States Air Force (retired), an honorary and posthumous 
promotion to the grade of colonel.
    (b) Additional Benefits Not to Accrue.--The advancement of Richard 
E. Cole on the retired list of the Air Force under subsection (a) shall 
not affect the retired pay or other benefits from the United States to 
which Richard E. Cole would have been entitled based upon his military 
service, or affect any benefits to which any other person is or may 
become entitled based on such military service.
SEC. 599C. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE HONORABLE AND DISTINGUISHED SERVICE 
OF GENERAL JOSEPH F. DUNFORD, UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS, TO THE UNITED 
STATES.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the United States deeply appreciates the decades of 
    honorable service of General Joseph F. Dunford, United States 
    Marine Corps; and
        (2) the indispensable leadership of General Dunford and his 
    dedication to the men and women of the Armed Forces demonstrates 
    the finest example of service to the United States.

                    TITLE VI--MILITARY COMPENSATION

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

Sec. 601. Clarification of continuation of pays during hospitalization 
          and rehabilitation resulting from wounds, injury, or illness 
          incurred while on duty in a hostile fire area or exposed to an 
          event of hostile fire or other hostile action.
Sec. 602. Continued entitlements while a member of the Armed Forces 
          participates in a career intermission program.
Sec. 603. Exemption from repayment of voluntary separation pay.
Sec. 604. Consideration of service on active duty to reduce age of 
          eligibility for retired pay for non-regular service.
Sec. 605. Temporary adjustment of rates of basic allowance for housing 
          following determination that local civilian housing costs 
          significantly differ from such rates.
Sec. 606. Reinvestment of travel refunds by the Department of Defense.
Sec. 607. Addition of partial dislocation allowance to allowable travel 
          and transportation expenses for servicemembers.
Sec. 608. Reductions on account of earnings from work performed while 
          entitled to an annuity supplement.
Sec. 609. Increase in basic pay.

             Subtitle B--Bonuses and Special Incentive Pays

Sec. 611. One-year extension of certain expiring bonus and special pay 
          authorities.

                Subtitle C--Family and Survivor Benefits

Sec. 621. Expansion of eligibility for exceptional transitional 
          compensation for dependents to dependents of current members.
Sec. 622. Phase-out of reduction of Survivor Benefit Plan survivor 
          annuities by amount of dependency and indemnity compensation.
Sec. 623. Death gratuity for ROTC graduates.
Sec. 624. Expansion of authority to provide financial assistance to 
          civilian providers of child care services or youth program 
          services who provide such services to survivors of members of 
          the Armed Forces who die in combat in the line of duty.
Sec. 625. Casualty assistance for survivors of deceased ROTC graduates.

                   Subtitle D--Defense Resale Matters

Sec. 631. Defense resale system matters.
Sec. 632. Procurement by commissary stores of certain locally sourced 
          products.
Sec. 633. GAO review of defense resale optimization study.

         Subtitle E--Morale, Welfare, and Recreation Privileges

Sec. 641. Extension of certain morale, welfare, and recreation 
          privileges to Foreign Service officers on mandatory home 
          leave.
Sec. 642. Extension of pilot program on a Government lodging program.

                  Subtitle F--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 651. Annual reports on approval of employment or compensation of 
          retired general or flag officers by foreign governments for 
          emoluments clause purposes.
Sec. 652. Report regarding transition from overseas housing allowance to 
          basic allowance for housing for servicemembers in the 
          territories.
Sec. 653. Report on extension to members of the reserve components of 
          the Armed Forces of special and incentive pays for members of 
          the Armed Forces not currently payable to members of the 
          reserve components.
Sec. 654. Study regarding recoupment of separation pay, special 
          separation benefits, and voluntary separation incentive 
          payments from members of the Armed Forces and veterans who 
          receive disability compensation under laws administered by the 
          Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 655. Report on implementation of contributions to the Department of 
          Defense Military Retirement Fund based on pay costs per Armed 
          Force rather than on Armed Forces-wide basis.
Sec. 656. Report on food insecurity among members of the Armed Forces 
          and their dependents.

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

    SEC. 601. CLARIFICATION OF CONTINUATION OF PAYS DURING 
      HOSPITALIZATION AND REHABILITATION RESULTING FROM WOUNDS, INJURY, 
      OR ILLNESS INCURRED WHILE ON DUTY IN A HOSTILE FIRE AREA OR 
      EXPOSED TO AN EVENT OF HOSTILE FIRE OR OTHER HOSTILE ACTION.
    Section 372(b)(1) of title 37, United States Code, is amended to 
read as follows:
        ``(1) The date on which the member is returned for assignment 
    to other than a medical or patient unit for duty; however, in the 
    case of a member under the jurisdiction of a Secretary of a 
    military department, the date on which the member is determined fit 
    for duty.''.
    SEC. 602. CONTINUED ENTITLEMENTS WHILE A MEMBER OF THE ARMED FORCES 
      PARTICIPATES IN A CAREER INTERMISSION PROGRAM.
    Section 710(h) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
    semicolon;
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period and inserting a 
    semicolon; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(3) the entitlement of the member and of the survivors of the 
    member to all death benefits under the provisions of chapter 75 of 
    this title;
        ``(4) the provision of all travel and transportation allowances 
    for the survivors of deceased members to attend burial ceremonies 
    under section 481f of title 37; and
        ``(5) the eligibility of the member for general benefits as 
    provided in part II of title 38.''.
    SEC. 603. EXEMPTION FROM REPAYMENT OF VOLUNTARY SEPARATION PAY.
    Section 1175a(j) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``paragraphs (2) and (3)'' 
    and inserting ``paragraphs (2), (3), and (4)'';
        (2) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
        (3) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
    paragraph:
    ``(4) This subsection shall not apply to a member who--
        ``(A) is involuntarily recalled to active duty or full-time 
    National Guard duty; and
        ``(B) in the course of such duty, incurs a service-connected 
    disability rated as total under section 1155 of title 38.''.
    SEC. 604. CONSIDERATION OF SERVICE ON ACTIVE DUTY TO REDUCE AGE OF 
      ELIGIBILITY FOR RETIRED PAY FOR NON-REGULAR SERVICE.
    Section 12731(f)(2)(B)(i) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``under a provision of law referred to in section 
101(a)(13)(B) or under section 12301(d)'' and inserting ``under section 
12301(d) or 12304b of this title, or under a provision of law referred 
to in section 101(a)(13)(B)''.
    SEC. 605. TEMPORARY ADJUSTMENT OF RATES OF BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR 
      HOUSING FOLLOWING DETERMINATION THAT LOCAL CIVILIAN HOUSING COSTS 
      SIGNIFICANTLY DIFFER FROM SUCH RATES.
    Section 403(b) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(8)(A) The Secretary of Defense may prescribe a temporary 
adjustment in the current rates of basic allowance for housing for a 
military housing area or a portion thereof (in this paragraph, `BAH 
rates') if the Secretary determines that the actual costs of adequate 
housing for civilians in that military housing area or portion thereof 
differs from the current BAH rates by more than 20 percent.
    ``(B) Any temporary adjustment in BAH rates under this paragraph 
shall remain in effect only until the effective date of the first 
adjustment of BAH rates for the affected military housing area that 
occurs after the date of the adjustment under this paragraph.
    ``(C) This paragraph shall cease to be effective on September 30, 
2022.''.
    SEC. 606. REINVESTMENT OF TRAVEL REFUNDS BY THE DEPARTMENT OF 
      DEFENSE.
    (a) Refunds for Official Travel.--Subchapter I of chapter 8 of 
title 37, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following new section:
``Sec. 456. Managed travel program refunds
    ``(a) Credit of Refunds.--The Secretary of Defense may credit 
refunds attributable to Department of Defense managed travel programs 
as a direct result of official travel to such operation and maintenance 
or research, development, test, and evaluation accounts of the 
Department as designated by the Secretary that are available for 
obligation for the fiscal year in which the refund or amount is 
collected.
    ``(b) Use of Refunds.--Refunds credited under subsection (a) may 
only be used for official travel or operations and efficiency 
improvements for improved financial management of official travel.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) Managed travel program.--The term `managed travel 
    program' includes air, rental car, train, bus, dining, lodging, and 
    travel management, but does not include rebates or refunds 
    attributable to the use of the Government travel card, the 
    Government Purchase Card, or Government travel arranged by 
    Government Contracted Travel Management Centers.
        ``(2) Refund.--The term `refund' includes miscellaneous 
    receipts credited to the Department identified as a refund, rebate, 
    repayment, or other similar amounts collected.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 8 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating 
to section 455 the following new item:

``456. Managed travel program refunds.''.

    (c) Clarification on Retention of Travel Promotional Items.--
Section 1116(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2002 (Public Law 107-107; 5 U.S.C. 5702 note) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``Definition.--In this section, the term'' and 
    inserting the following: ``Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(2) The term `general public' includes the Federal Government 
    or an agency.''.
    SEC. 607. ADDITION OF PARTIAL DISLOCATION ALLOWANCE TO ALLOWABLE 
      TRAVEL AND TRANSPORTATION EXPENSES FOR SERVICEMEMBERS.
    (a) Current Authority.--Section 477(f)(1) of title 37, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``family''.
    (b) Future Authority.--Section 452(c) of title 37, United States 
Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
        (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
    paragraph (3):
        ``(3) A partial dislocation allowance paid to a member ordered 
    to occupy or vacate housing provided by the United States.''.
    SEC. 608. REDUCTIONS ON ACCOUNT OF EARNINGS FROM WORK PERFORMED 
      WHILE ENTITLED TO AN ANNUITY SUPPLEMENT.
    Section 8421a(c) of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking ``full-time as an air traffic control 
    instructor'' and inserting ``as an air traffic control instructor, 
    or supervisor thereof,''; and
        (2) by inserting ``or supervisor'' after ``an instructor''.
    SEC. 609. INCREASE IN BASIC PAY.
    Effective on January 1, 2020, the rates of monthly basic pay for 
members of the uniformed services are increased by 3.1 percent.

             Subtitle B--Bonuses and Special Incentive Pays

    SEC. 611. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF CERTAIN EXPIRING BONUS AND SPECIAL 
      PAY AUTHORITIES.
    (a) Authorities Relating To Reserve Forces.--Section 910(g) of 
title 37, United States Code, relating to income replacement payments 
for reserve component members experiencing extended and frequent 
mobilization for active duty service, is amended by striking ``December 
31, 2019'' and inserting ``December 31, 2020''.
    (b) Title 10 Authorities Relating to Health Care Professionals.--
The following sections of title 10, United States Code, are amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2019'' and inserting ``December 31, 2020'':
        (1) Section 2130a(a)(1), relating to nurse officer candidate 
    accession program.
        (2) Section 16302(d), relating to repayment of education loans 
    for certain health professionals who serve in the Selected Reserve.
    (c) Authorities Relating to Nuclear Officers.--Section 333(i) of 
title 37, United States Code, is amended by striking ``December 31, 
2019'' and inserting ``December 31, 2020''.
    (d) Authorities Relating to Title 37 Consolidated Special Pay, 
Incentive Pay, and Bonus Authorities.--The following sections of title 
37, United States Code, are amended by striking ``December 31, 2019'' 
and inserting ``December 31, 2020'':
        (1) Section 331(h), relating to general bonus authority for 
    enlisted members.
        (2) Section 332(g), relating to general bonus authority for 
    officers.
        (3) Section 334(i), relating to special aviation incentive pay 
    and bonus authorities for officers.
        (4) Section 335(k), relating to special bonus and incentive pay 
    authorities for officers in health professions.
        (5) Section 336(g), relating to contracting bonus for cadets 
    and midshipmen enrolled in the Senior Reserve Officers' Training 
    Corps.
        (6) Section 351(h), relating to hazardous duty pay.
        (7) Section 352(g), relating to assignment pay or special duty 
    pay.
        (8) Section 353(i), relating to skill incentive pay or 
    proficiency bonus.
        (9) Section 355(h), relating to retention incentives for 
    members qualified in critical military skills or assigned to high 
    priority units.
    (e) Authority to Provide Temporary Increase in Rates of Basic 
Allowance for Housing.--Section 403(b)(7)(E) of title 37, United States 
Code, is amended by striking ``December 31, 2019'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2020''.

                Subtitle C--Family and Survivor Benefits

    SEC. 621. EXPANSION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR EXCEPTIONAL TRANSITIONAL 
      COMPENSATION FOR DEPENDENTS TO DEPENDENTS OF CURRENT MEMBERS.
    Section 1059(m) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``Members or'' 
    after ``Dependents of'';
        (2) by inserting ``member or'' before ``former member'' each 
    place it appears;
        (3) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
        (4) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
    paragraph (3):
    ``(3) For purposes of the provision of benefits under this section 
pursuant to this subsection, a member shall be considered separated 
from active duty upon the earliest of--
        ``(A) the date an administrative separation is initiated by a 
    commander of the member;
        ``(B) the date the court-martial sentence is adjudged if the 
    sentence, as adjudged, includes a dismissal, dishonorable 
    discharge, bad conduct discharge, or forfeiture of all pay and 
    allowances; or
        ``(C) the date the member's term of service expires.''.
    SEC. 622. PHASE-OUT OF REDUCTION OF SURVIVOR BENEFIT PLAN SURVIVOR 
      ANNUITIES BY AMOUNT OF DEPENDENCY AND INDEMNITY COMPENSATION.
    (a) Phase-out.--Subchapter II of chapter 73 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended as follows:
        (1) In general.--In section 1450(c)(1)--
            (A) by striking ``that the annuity otherwise payable under 
        this section would exceed that compensation.'' and inserting 
        ``calculated as follows:''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(A) During the period beginning on January 1, 2020, and 
        ending on December 31, 2020, the amount that the annuity 
        otherwise payable under this section would exceed such 
        dependency and indemnity compensation.
            ``(B) During the period beginning on January 1, 2021, and 
        ending on December 31, 2021, the amount that the annuity 
        otherwise payable under this section would exceed two-thirds of 
        such dependency and indemnity compensation.
            ``(C) During the period beginning on January 1, 2022, and 
        ending on December 31, 2022, the amount that the annuity 
        otherwise payable under this section would exceed one-third of 
        such dependency and indemnity compensation.
            ``(D) On and after January 1, 2023, the full amount of the 
        annuity under this section.''.
        (2) Conforming amendment.--In section 1451(c)(2), by inserting 
    ``a portion (calculated under section 1450(c) of this title) of'' 
    before ``the amount''.
    (b) Prohibition on Retroactive Benefits.--No benefits may be paid 
to any person for any period before the effective date provided under 
subsection (f) by reason of the amendments made by subsection (a).
    (c) Prohibition on Recoupment of Certain Amounts Previously 
Refunded to SBP Recipients.--A surviving spouse who is or has been in 
receipt of an annuity under the Survivor Benefit Plan under subchapter 
II of chapter 73 of title 10, United States Code, that is in effect 
before the effective date provided under subsection (f) and that is 
adjusted by reason of the amendments made by subsection (a) and who has 
received a refund of retired pay under section 1450(e) of title 10, 
United States Code, shall not be required to repay such refund to the 
United States.
    (d) Repeal of Authority for Optional Annuity for Dependent 
Children.--Section 1448(d)(2) of such title is amended--
        (1) by striking ``Dependent children.--'' and all that follows 
    through ``In the case of a member described in paragraph (1),'' and 
    inserting ``Dependent children.--In the case of a member described 
    in paragraph (1),''; and
        (2) by striking subparagraph (B).
    (e) Restoration of Eligibility for Previously Eligible Spouses.--
The Secretary of the military department concerned shall restore 
annuity eligibility to any eligible surviving spouse who, in 
consultation with the Secretary, previously elected to transfer payment 
of such annuity to a surviving child or children under the provisions 
of section 1448(d)(2)(B) of title 10, United States Code, as in effect 
on the day before the effective date provided under subsection (f). 
Such eligibility shall be restored whether or not payment to such child 
or children subsequently was terminated due to loss of dependent status 
or death. For the purposes of this subsection, an eligible spouse 
includes a spouse who was previously eligible for payment of such 
annuity and is not remarried, or remarried after having attained age 
55, or whose second or subsequent marriage has been terminated by 
death, divorce or annulment.
    (f) Effective Date.--This section and the amendments made by this 
section shall take effect on the first day of the first month that 
begins after the date of the enactment of this Act, except subsections 
(d) and (e) of this section and the amendments made thereby shall take 
effect on January 1, 2023.
    SEC. 623. DEATH GRATUITY FOR ROTC GRADUATES.
    (a) In General.--Section 1475(a)(4) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by adding ``; or a graduate of a reserve officers' 
training corps who has received a commission but has yet to receive a 
first duty assignment; or'' at the end.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment under subsection (a) applies to 
deaths that occur on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    SEC. 624. EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO 
      CIVILIAN PROVIDERS OF CHILD CARE SERVICES OR YOUTH PROGRAM 
      SERVICES WHO PROVIDE SUCH SERVICES TO SURVIVORS OF MEMBERS OF THE 
      ARMED FORCES WHO DIE IN COMBAT IN THE LINE OF DUTY.
    Section 1798(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting ``, survivors of members of the armed forces who die in 
combat-related incidents in the line of duty,'' after ``armed forces''.
    SEC. 625. CASUALTY ASSISTANCE FOR SURVIVORS OF DECEASED ROTC 
      GRADUATES.
    Section 633 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2014 (10 U.S.C. 1475 note) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(c) ROTC Graduates.--
        ``(1) Treated as members.--For purposes of this section, a 
    graduate of a reserve officers' training corps who receives a 
    commission and who dies before receiving a first duty assignment 
    shall be treated as a member of the Armed Forces who dies while on 
    active duty.
        ``(2) Effective date.--This subsection applies to deaths on or 
    after the date of the enactment of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020.''.

                   Subtitle D--Defense Resale Matters

    SEC. 631. DEFENSE RESALE SYSTEM MATTERS.
    (a) In General.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and 
Readiness shall, in coordination with the Chief Management Officer of 
the Department of Defense, maintain oversight of business 
transformation efforts of the defense commissary system and the 
exchange stores system in order to ensure the following:
        (1) Development of an intercomponent business strategy that 
    maximizes efficiencies and results in a viable defense resale 
    system in the future.
        (2) Preservation of patron savings and satisfaction from and in 
    the defense commissary system and exchange stores system.
        (3) Sustainment of financial support of the defense commissary 
    and exchange systems for morale, welfare, and recreation (MWR) 
    services of the Armed Forces.
    (b) Executive Resale Board Advice on Operations of Systems.--The 
Executive Resale Board of the Department of Defense shall advise the 
Under Secretary on the implementation of sustainable, complementary 
operations of the defense commissary system and the exchange stores 
system.
    (c) Information Technology Modernization.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall, acting through the Under Secretary and with advice from the 
Executive Resale Board, require the Defense Commissary Agency and the 
Military Exchange Service to do as follows:
        (1) Field new technologies and best business practices for 
    information technology for the defense resale system.
        (2) Implement cutting-edge marketing opportunities across the 
    defense resale system.
    (d) Inclusion of Advertising in Operating Expenses of Commissary 
Stores.--Section 2483(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following paragraph:
        ``(7) Advertising of commissary sales on materials available 
    within commissary stores and at other on-base locations.''.
    SEC. 632. PROCUREMENT BY COMMISSARY STORES OF CERTAIN LOCALLY 
      SOURCED PRODUCTS.
    The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the dairy products and 
fruits and vegetables procured for commissary stores under the defense 
commissary system are, to the extent practicable and while maintaining 
mandated patron savings, locally sourced in order to ensure the 
availability of the freshest possible dairy products and fruits and 
vegetables for patrons of the stores.
    SEC. 633. GAO REVIEW OF DEFENSE RESALE OPTIMIZATION STUDY.
    (a) Review.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
conduct a review of the business case analysis performed as part of the 
defense resale optimization study conducted by the Reform Management 
Group, titled ``Study to Determine the Feasibility of Consolidation of 
the Defense Resale Entities'' and dated December 4, 2018.
    (b) Reports Required; Elements.--Not later than March 1, 2020, and 
June 1, 2020, the Comptroller General shall submit to the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives an 
interim report and a final report, respectively, regarding the review 
performed under this section. Each report shall include evaluations of 
the following:
        (1) The descriptions and justifications for the assumptions, 
    analytical choices and data used by the Reform Management Group to 
    calculate:
            (A) Pricing.
            (B) Sales assumptions.
            (C) Accuracy of methods employed to measure patron savings 
        levels.
        (2) The timetable for consolidation of military exchanges and 
    commissaries.
        (3) The recommendations for consolidation developed as part of 
    the business case analysis, including the overall cost of 
    consolidation.
        (4) The budget and oversight implications of merging non-
    appropriated funds and appropriated funds to implement the 
    recommended reforms.
        (5) The extent to which the Reform Management Group coordinated 
    with the Secretaries of the military departments and the chiefs of 
    the Armed Forces in preparing the study.
        (6) The extent to which the Reform Management Group addressed 
    concerns of the Secretaries of the military departments and the 
    chiefs of the Armed Forces in the study.
        (7) If the recommendations in the business case analysis were 
    implemented--
            (A) the ability of military exchanges and commissaries to 
        provide earnings to support on-base morale, welfare, and 
        recreation programs; and
            (B) the financial viability of the military exchanges and 
        commissaries.
    (c) Delay on Consolidation.--The Secretary of Defense may not take 
any action to consolidate military exchanges and commissaries until the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives notify the Secretary in writing of receipt and 
acceptance of the findings of the Comptroller General in the reports 
required under this section.

         Subtitle E--Morale, Welfare, and Recreation Privileges

    SEC. 641. EXTENSION OF CERTAIN MORALE, WELFARE, AND RECREATION 
      PRIVILEGES TO FOREIGN SERVICE OFFICERS ON MANDATORY HOME LEAVE.
    (a) In General.--Section 1065 of title 10, United States Code, as 
added by section 621 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), is 
amended--
        (1) in the heading, by striking ``veterans and caregivers for 
    veterans'' and inserting ``veterans, caregivers for veterans, and 
    Foreign Service officers'';
        (2) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections (g) 
    and (h), respectively;
        (3) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
    subsection (f):
    ``(f) Eligibility of Foreign Service Officers on Mandatory Home 
Leave.--A Foreign Service officer on mandatory home leave may be 
permitted to use military lodging referred to in subsection (h).''; and
        (4) in subsection (h), as redesignated by paragraph (2), by 
    adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(5) The term `Foreign Service officer' has the meaning given 
    that term in section 103 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 
    U.S.C. 3903).
        ``(6) The term `mandatory home leave' means leave under section 
    903 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4083).''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on January 1, 2020, as if originally incorporated in section 621 
of Public Law 115-232.
    SEC. 642. EXTENSION OF PILOT PROGRAM ON A GOVERNMENT LODGING 
      PROGRAM.
    Section 914(b) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (5 U.S.C. 5911 
note) is amended by striking ``December 31, 2019'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2020''.

                 Subtitle F--Reports and Other Matters

    SEC. 651. ANNUAL REPORTS ON APPROVAL OF EMPLOYMENT OR COMPENSATION 
      OF RETIRED GENERAL OR FLAG OFFICERS BY FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS FOR 
      EMOLUMENTS CLAUSE PURPOSES.
    (a) Annual Reports.--Section 908 of title 37, United States Code is 
amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
    subsection (c):
    ``(c) Annual Reports on Approvals for Retired General and Flag 
Officers.--Not later than January 31 each year, the Secretaries of the 
military departments, after consulting with the Secretary of State, 
shall jointly submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
and House of Representatives a report on each approval under subsection 
(b) for employment or compensation described in subsection (a) for a 
retired member of the armed forces in general or flag officer grade 
that was issued during the preceding year.''.
    (b) Scope of First Report.--The first report submitted pursuant to 
subsection (c) of section 908 of title 37, United States Code (as 
amended by subsection (a) of this section), after the date of the 
enactment of this Act shall cover the five-year period ending with the 
year before the year in which such report is submitted.
    SEC. 652. REPORT REGARDING TRANSITION FROM OVERSEAS HOUSING 
      ALLOWANCE TO BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR HOUSING FOR SERVICEMEMBERS IN 
      THE TERRITORIES.
    Not later than February 1, 2020, the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit a report to the congressional defense committees regarding the 
recommendation of the Secretary whether members of the uniformed 
services located in the territories of the United States and who 
receive the overseas housing allowance should instead receive the basic 
allowance for housing to ensure the most appropriate housing 
compensation for such members and their families.
    SEC. 653. REPORT ON EXTENSION TO MEMBERS OF THE RESERVE COMPONENTS 
      OF THE ARMED FORCES OF SPECIAL AND INCENTIVE PAYS FOR MEMBERS OF 
      THE ARMED FORCES NOT CURRENTLY PAYABLE TO MEMBERS OF THE RESERVE 
      COMPONENTS.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report setting forth the results of 
a study, conducted by the Secretary for purposes of the report, on the 
feasability and advisability of paying eligible members of the reserve 
components of the Armed Forces any special or incentive pay for members 
of the Armed Forces that is not currently payable to members of the 
reserve components.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall set 
forth the following:
        (1) An estimate of the yearly cost of paying members of the 
    reserve components risk pay and flight pay under sections 334, 
    334a, and 351 of title 37, United States Code, at the same rate as 
    members on active duty, regardless of the number of periods of 
    instruction or appropriate duty participated in, so long as there 
    is at least one such period of instruction or appropriate duty in 
    the month.
        (2) A statement of the number of members of the reserve 
    components who qualify or potentially qualify for hazardous duty 
    incentive pay based on current professions or required duties, 
    broken out by hazardous duty categories set forth in section 351 of 
    title 37, United States Code.
        (3) If the Secretary determines that payment to eligible 
    members of the reserve components of any special or incentive pay 
    for members of the Armed Forces that is not currently payable to 
    members of the reserve components is feasible and advisable, such 
    recommendations as the Secretary considers appropriate for 
    legislative or administrative action to authorize such payment.
    SEC. 654. STUDY REGARDING RECOUPMENT OF SEPARATION PAY, SPECIAL 
      SEPARATION BENEFITS, AND VOLUNTARY SEPARATION INCENTIVE PAYMENTS 
      FROM MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND VETERANS WHO RECEIVE 
      DISABILITY COMPENSATION UNDER LAWS ADMINISTERED BY THE SECRETARY 
      OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
    (a) Study.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs, shall conduct a study to determine, with 
regards to members of the Armed Forces and veterans whose separation 
pay, special separation benefits, and voluntary separation incentive 
payments either Secretary recoups because such members and veterans 
subsequently receive disability compensation under laws administered by 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs--
        (1) how many such members and veterans are affected by such 
    recoupment; and
        (2) the aggregated amount of additional money such members and 
    veterans would receive but for such recoupment.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than September 30, 2020, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services 
and Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a 
report regarding the results of the study under subsection (a).
    SEC. 655. REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION OF CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE 
      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE MILITARY RETIREMENT FUND BASED ON PAY COSTS 
      PER ARMED FORCE RATHER THAN ON ARMED FORCES-WIDE BASIS.
    (a) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than April 1, 2020, the Secretary of 
    Defense shall, in consultation with the Secretaries of the military 
    departments, submit to the congressional defense committees a 
    report setting forth a plan for the implementation of the 
    amendments described in paragraph (2) as if such amendments would 
    apply with respect to determinations of contributions to the 
    Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund under chapter 74 of 
    title 10, United States Code, and payments into the Fund, beginning 
    with fiscal year 2025.
        (2) Covered amendments.--The amendments described in this 
    paragraph are the amendments proposed to be made by section 631 of 
    S.1790 of the 116th Congress, as reported to the Senate by the 
    Committee on Armed Services of the Senate on June 11, 2019.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) A plan to implement the amendments described in paragraph 
    (2) of subsection (a) in the manner described in paragraph (1) of 
    that subsection.
        (2) A timeline for actions required to implement such 
    amendments in that manner.
        (3) An assessment of the impact of the implementation of such 
    amendments in that manner on each of the following:
            (A) The budgeting of the military departments.
            (B) The efforts of the Department of Defense to achieve 
        audits of its financial statements.
            (C) Decisions on military manning of the Armed Forces.
            (D) The cost and complexity of tracking contributions to 
        the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund.
    SEC. 656. REPORT ON FOOD INSECURITY AMONG MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
      FORCES AND THEIR DEPENDENTS.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than May 1, 2020, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
and the House of Representatives a report on food insecurity among 
members of the Armed Forces and their dependents.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) An assessment of the current extent of food insecurity 
    among members of the Armed Forces and their dependents, including a 
    description and analysis of the following:
            (A) Use of food assistance by members and their dependents, 
        as revealed in data of the Department of Defense and other data 
        available to the Department.
            (B) Use of free and reduced price school meals by 
        dependents.
            (C) Use of food banks or similar assistance by members and 
        their dependents.
        (2) A description and assessment of the barriers, if any, to 
    qualification for or access to adequate food assistance of any type 
    by members of the Armed Forces and their dependents.
        (3) A description of the number of members of the Armed Forces 
    overseas who enrolled in the Family Supplemental Subsistence 
    Allowance (FSSA) program under section 402a of title 37, United 
    States Code, during the five-fiscal year period ending with fiscal 
    year 2019, and of the cost to the Department of such enrollment 
    during each fiscal year concerned.
        (4) An assessment of the effectiveness of the Family 
    Supplemental Subsistence Allowance program for members of the Armed 
    Forces overseas.
        (5) A description and assessment of the participation of 
    members of the Armed Forces in the Supplemental Nutrition 
    Assistance Program (SNAP), including with respect to the following:
            (A) Coordination between the Department of Defense and the 
        Department of Agriculture for purposes of determining the 
        numbers of members currently participating in the program.
            (B) Career stigma for members resulting from participation 
        in the program.
            (C) Adverse consequences for member personal financial 
        management resulting from participation in the program.
            (D) Other support available to and used by members to meet 
        basic needs requirements.
        (6) An assessment of food insecurity among members of the Armed 
    Forces who reside in on-post housing (and thus do not receive basic 
    allowance for housing (BAH)) and their dependents, including 
    eligibility of such members for and participation of such members 
    in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program.
        (7) An assessment of the feasability and advisability of a 
    basic needs allowance for low-income members of the Armed Forces 
    (including an allowance calculated both with and without basic 
    allowance for housing included in the determination of member gross 
    household income), including with respect to the following:
            (A) The maximum member gross household income for 
        eligibility for the allowance.
            (B) The number of members who would be eligible for the 
        allowance.
            (C) The optimal average annual amount of the allowance.
            (D) The total annual cost of paying the allowance.
            (E) Whether particular geographic locations would include 
        large number of members eligible for the allowance.
            (F) The effects of payment of the allowance on recruitment 
        and retention of members, and on member morale and conduct.
        (8) Any other recommendations for policies, programs, and 
    activities to address food insecurity among members of the Armed 
    Forces and their dependents that the Secretary considers 
    appropriate.

                   TITLE VII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

           Subtitle A--TRICARE and Other Health Care Benefits

Sec. 701. Modification of eligibility for TRICARE Reserve Select for 
          certain members of the Selected Reserve.
Sec. 702. TRICARE payment options for retirees and their dependents.
Sec. 703. Lead level screening and testing for children.
Sec. 704. Exposure to open burn pits and toxic airborne chemicals or 
          other airborne contaminants as part of periodic health 
          assessments and other physical examinations.
Sec. 705. Enhancement of recordkeeping with respect to exposure by 
          members of the Armed Forces to certain occupational and 
          environmental hazards while deployed overseas.
Sec. 706. Modifications to post-deployment mental health assessments for 
          members of the Armed Forces deployed in support of a 
          contingency operation.
Sec. 707. Provision of blood testing for firefighters of Department of 
          Defense to determine exposure to perfluoroalkyl and 
          polyfluoroalkyl substances.

                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

Sec. 711. Modification of organization of military health system.
Sec. 712. Support by military health system of medical requirements of 
          combatant commands.
Sec. 713. Requirements for certain prescription drug labels.
Sec. 714. Officers authorized to command Army dental units.
Sec. 715. Improvements to interagency program office of the Department 
          of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 716. Expansion of strategy to improve acquisition of managed care 
          support contracts under TRICARE program.
Sec. 717. Inclusion of blast exposure history in medical records of 
          members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 718. Comprehensive policy for provision of mental health care to 
          members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 719. Limitation on the realignment or reduction of military medical 
          manning end strength.
Sec. 720. Strategy to recruit and retain mental health providers.
Sec. 721. Development of partnerships to improve combat casualty care 
          for personnel of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 722. Modification to referrals for mental health services.

                  Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 731. Authorization of claims by members of the uniformed services 
          against the United States for personal injury or death caused 
          by medical malpractice.
Sec. 732. Extension and clarification of authority for Joint Department 
          of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
          Demonstration Fund.
Sec. 733. Appointment of non-ex officio members of the Henry M. Jackson 
          Foundation for the Advancement of Military Medicine.
Sec. 734. Establishment of Academic Health System in National Capital 
          Region.
Sec. 735. Provision of veterinary services by veterinary professionals 
          of the Department of Defense in emergencies.
Sec. 736. Three-year extension of authority to continue the DOD-VA 
          Health Care Sharing Incentive Fund.
Sec. 737. Preservation of resources of the Army Medical Research and 
          Materiel Command and continuation as Center of Excellence.
Sec. 738. Encouragement of participation in Women's Health Transition 
          Training pilot program.
Sec. 739. National Guard suicide prevention pilot program.
Sec. 740. Pilot Program on civilian and military partnerships to enhance 
          interoperability and medical surge capability and capacity of 
          National Disaster Medical System.
Sec. 741. Reports on suicide among members of the Armed Forces and 
          suicide prevention programs and activities of the Department 
          of Defense.
Sec. 742. Modification of requirements for longitudinal medical study on 
          blast pressure exposure of members of the Armed Forces and 
          collection of exposure information.
Sec. 743. Study and plan on the use of military-civilian integrated 
          health delivery systems.
Sec. 744. Study on case management in the military health system.
Sec. 745. Report on Global Health Security Strategy and the National 
          Biodefense Security.
Sec. 746. Study on establishment of wounded warrior service dog program.
Sec. 747. GAO report on Department of Defense quality assurance program 
          and impacts of medical malpractice actions.
Sec. 748. Reports on Millennium Cohort Study relating to women members 
          of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 749. Study on effects of sleep deprivation on readiness of members 
          of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 750. Study and report on traumatic brain injury mitigation efforts.

           Subtitle A--TRICARE and Other Health Care Benefits

    SEC. 701. MODIFICATION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR TRICARE RESERVE SELECT 
      FOR CERTAIN MEMBERS OF THE SELECTED RESERVE.
    Section 1076d(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``Paragraph (1) does not apply'' and inserting ``During the 
period preceding January 1, 2030, paragraph (1) does not apply''.
    SEC. 702. TRICARE PAYMENT OPTIONS FOR RETIREES AND THEIR 
      DEPENDENTS.
    (a) In General.--Section 1099 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
    subsection (d):
    ``(d) Payment Options.--(1) A member or former member of the 
uniformed services, or a dependent thereof, eligible for medical care 
and dental care under section 1074(b) or 1076 of this title shall pay a 
premium for coverage under this chapter.
    ``(2) To the maximum extent practicable, a premium owed by a 
member, former member, or dependent under paragraph (1) shall be 
withheld from the retired, retainer, or equivalent pay of the member, 
former member, or dependent. In all other cases, a premium shall be 
paid in a frequency and method determined by the Secretary.''.
    (b) Conforming and Clerical Amendments.--
        (1) Conforming amendments.--Section 1097a of title 10, United 
    States Code, is amended--
            (A) by striking subsection (c); and
            (B) by redesignating subsections (d), (e), and (f) as 
        subsections (c), (d), and (e), respectively.
        (2) Heading amendments.--
            (A) Automatic enrollments.--The heading for section 1097a 
        of such title is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 1097a. TRICARE Prime: automatic enrollments''.
            (B) Enrollment system and payment options.--The heading for 
        section 1099 of such title is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 1099. Health care enrollment system and payment options''.
        (3) Clerical amendments.--The table of sections at the 
    beginning of chapter 55 of such title is amended--
            (A) by striking the item relating to section 1097a and 
        inserting the following new item:

``1097a. TRICARE Prime: automatic enrollments.''; and

            (B) by striking the item relating to section 1099 and 
        inserting the following new item:

``1099. Health care enrollment system and payment options.''.

    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to health care coverage beginning on or after January 1, 2021.
    SEC. 703. LEAD LEVEL SCREENING AND TESTING FOR CHILDREN.
    (a) Comprehensive Screening, Testing, and Reporting Guidelines.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish 
    clinical practice guidelines for health care providers employed by 
    the Department of Defense on screening, testing, and reporting of 
    blood lead levels in children.
        (2) Use of cdc recommendations.--Guidelines established under 
    paragraph (1) shall reflect recommendations made by the Centers for 
    Disease Control and Prevention with respect to the screening, 
    testing, and reporting of blood lead levels in children.
        (3) Dissemination of guidelines.--Not later than one year after 
    the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
    disseminate the clinical practice guidelines established under 
    paragraph (1) to health care providers of the Department of 
    Defense.
    (b) Care Provided in Accordance With CDC Guidance.--The Secretary 
shall ensure that any care provided by the Department of Defense to a 
child for an elevated blood lead level shall be carried out in 
accordance with applicable guidance issued by the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention.
    (c) Sharing of Results of Testing.--
        (1) In general.--With respect to a child who receives from the 
    Department of Defense a test for an elevated blood lead level--
            (A) the Secretary shall provide the results of the test to 
        the parent or guardian of the child; and
            (B) notwithstanding any requirements for the 
        confidentiality of health information under the Health 
        Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (Public 
        Law 104-191), if the results of the test show an abnormal blood 
        lead level or elevated blood lead level, the Secretary shall 
        provide those results and the address at which the child 
        resides to--
                (i) the relevant health department of the State in 
            which the child resides if the child resides in the United 
            States; or
                (ii) if the child resides outside the United States--

                    (I) the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention;
                    (II) the appropriate authority of the country in 
                which the child resides; and
                    (III) the primary provider of health care for the 
                child for follow-up.

        (2) State defined.--In this subsection, the term ``State'' 
    means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the 
    Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of the 
    United States.
    (d) Report.--Not later than January 1, 2021, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
and the House of Representatives a report detailing, with respect to 
the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act and 
ending on the date of the report, the following:
        (1) The number of children who were tested by the Department of 
    Defense for the level of lead in the blood of the child, and of 
    such number, the number who were found to have an elevated blood 
    lead level.
        (2) The number of children who were screened by the Department 
    of Defense for an elevated risk of lead exposure.
    (e) Comptroller General Report.--Not later than January 1, 2022, 
the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on the effectiveness of screening and testing 
for lead exposure and elevated blood lead levels under chapter 55 of 
title 10, United States Code.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``abnormal blood lead 
level'' and ``elevated blood lead level'' have the meanings given those 
terms by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
    SEC. 704. EXPOSURE TO OPEN BURN PITS AND TOXIC AIRBORNE CHEMICALS 
      OR OTHER AIRBORNE CONTAMINANTS AS PART OF PERIODIC HEALTH 
      ASSESSMENTS AND OTHER PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS.
    (a) Periodic Health Assessment.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
ensure that any periodic health assessment provided to members of the 
Armed Forces includes an evaluation of whether the member has been--
        (1) based or stationed at a location where an open burn pit was 
    used; or
        (2) exposed to toxic airborne chemicals or other airborne 
    contaminants, including any information recorded as part of the 
    Airborne Hazards and Open Burn Pit Registry.
    (b) Separation History and Physical Examinations.--Section 
1145(a)(5) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the 
end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(C) The Secretary concerned shall ensure that each physical 
examination of a member under subparagraph (A) includes an assessment 
of whether the member was--
        ``(i) based or stationed at a location where an open burn pit, 
    as defined in subsection (c) of section 201 of the Dignified Burial 
    and Other Veterans' Benefits Improvement Act of 2012 (Public Law 
    112-260; 38 U.S.C. 527 note), was used; or
        ``(ii) exposed to toxic airborne chemicals or other airborne 
    contaminants, including any information recorded as part of the 
    registry established by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs under 
    such section 201.''.
    (c) Deployment Assessments.--Section 1074f(b)(2) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subparagraph:
        ``(D) An assessment of whether the member was--
            ``(i) based or stationed at a location where an open burn 
        pit, as defined in subsection (c) of section 201 of the 
        Dignified Burial and Other Veterans' Benefits Improvement Act 
        of 2012 (Public Law 112-260; 38 U.S.C. 527 note), was used; or
            ``(ii) exposed to toxic airborne chemicals or other 
        airborne contaminants, including any information recorded as 
        part of the registry established by the Secretary of Veterans 
        Affairs under such section 201.''.
    (d) Sharing of Information.--
        (1) DOD-VA.--The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
    Veterans Affairs shall jointly enter into a memorandum of 
    understanding providing for the sharing by the Department of 
    Defense with the Department of Veterans Affairs of the results of 
    covered evaluations regarding the exposure by a member of the Armed 
    Forces to toxic airborne chemicals or other airborne contaminants.
        (2) Registry.--If a covered evaluation of a member of the Armed 
    Forces establishes that the member was based or stationed at a 
    location where an open burn pit was used or that the member was 
    exposed to toxic airborne chemicals or other airborne contaminants, 
    the member shall be enrolled in the Airborne Hazards and Open Burn 
    Pit Registry unless the member elects to not so enroll.
    (e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
to preclude eligibility for benefits under the laws administered by the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs by reason of the open burn pit exposure 
history of a veteran not being recorded in a covered evaluation.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``Airborne Hazards and Open Burn Pit Registry'' 
    means the registry established by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
    under section 201 of the Dignified Burial and Other Veterans' 
    Benefits Improvement Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-260; 38 U.S.C. 527 
    note).
        (2) The term ``covered evaluation'' means--
            (A) a periodic health assessment conducted in accordance 
        with subsection (a);
            (B) a separation history and physical examination conducted 
        under section 1145(a)(5) of title 10, United States Code, as 
        amended by this section; and
            (C) a deployment assessment conducted under section 
        1074f(b)(2) of such title, as amended by this section.
        (3) The term ``open burn pit'' has the meaning given that term 
    in section 201(c) of the Dignified Burial and Other Veterans' 
    Benefits Improvement Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-260; 38 U.S.C. 527 
    note).
    SEC. 705. ENHANCEMENT OF RECORDKEEPING WITH RESPECT TO EXPOSURE BY 
      MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES TO CERTAIN OCCUPATIONAL AND 
      ENVIRONMENTAL HAZARDS WHILE DEPLOYED OVERSEAS.
    (a) Inclusion in Medical Tracking System of Occupational and 
Environmental Health Risks in Deployment Area.--
        (1) Elements of medical tracking system.--Subsection (b)(1)(A) 
    of section 1074f of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (A) in clause (ii), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (B) in clause (iii), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new clause:
        ``(iv) accurately record any exposure to occupational and 
    environmental health risks during the course of their 
    deployment.''.
        (2) Recordkeeping.--Subsection (c) of such section is amended 
    by inserting after ``deployment area'' the following: ``(including 
    the results of any assessment performed by the Secretary of 
    occupational and environmental health risks for such area)''.
    (b) Postdeployment Medical Examination and Reassessments.--Section 
1074f of title 10, United States Code, as amended by subsection (a), is 
further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Additional Requirements for Postdeployment Medical 
Examinations and Health Reassessments.--(1) The Secretary of Defense 
shall standardize and make available to a provider that conducts a 
postdeployment medical examination or reassessment under the system 
described in subsection (a) questions relating to occupational and 
environmental health exposure.
    ``(2) The Secretary, to the extent practicable, shall ensure that 
the medical record of a member includes information on the external 
cause relating to a diagnosis of the member, including by associating 
an external cause code (as issued under the International Statistical 
Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems, 10th Revision 
(or any successor revision)).''.
    (c) Access to Information in Burn Pit Registry.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that all 
    medical personnel of the Department of Defense have access to the 
    information contained in the burn pit registry.
        (2) Burn pit registry defined.--In this subsection, the term 
    ``burn pit registry'' means the registry established under section 
    201 of the Dignified Burial and Other Veterans' Benefits 
    Improvement Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-260; 38 U.S.C. 527 note).
    SEC. 706. MODIFICATIONS TO POST-DEPLOYMENT MENTAL HEALTH 
      ASSESSMENTS FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES DEPLOYED IN SUPPORT 
      OF A CONTINGENCY OPERATION.
    (a) Required Assessments.--Section 1074m(a)(1) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by striking subparagraphs (C) and (D) and 
inserting the following new subparagraphs:
            ``(C) Subject to paragraph (3) and subsection (d), once 
        during the period beginning on the date of redeployment from 
        the contingency operation and ending on the date that is 21 
        days after the date on which the post-deployment leave of the 
        member terminates.
            ``(D) Subject to subsection (d), not less than once 
        annually--
                ``(i) beginning 21 days after the date on which the 
            post-deployment leave of the member terminates; or
                ``(ii) if the assessment required by subparagraph (C) 
            is performed during the period specified in paragraph (3), 
            beginning 180 days after the date of redeployment from the 
            contingency operation.''.
    (b) Exceptions.--Section 1074m(a) of such title, as amended by 
subsection (a), is further amended by striking paragraph (2) and 
inserting the following new paragraphs:
    ``(2) A mental health assessment is not required for a member of 
the armed forces under subparagraphs (C) and (D) of paragraph (1) 
(including an assessment performed pursuant to paragraph (3)) if the 
Secretary determines that providing such assessment to the member 
during the time periods under such subparagraphs would remove the 
member from forward deployment or put members or operational objectives 
at risk.
    ``(3) A mental health assessment required under subparagraph (C) of 
paragraph (1) may be provided during the period beginning 90 days after 
the date of redeployment from the contingency operation and ending 180 
days after such redeployment date if the Secretary determines that--
        ``(A) an insufficient number of personnel are available to 
    perform the assessment during the time period under such 
    subparagraph; or
        ``(B) an administrative processing issue exists upon the return 
    of the member to the home unit or duty station that would prohibit 
    the effective performance of the assessment during such time 
    period.''.
    (c) Elimination of Sunset for Assessments During Deployment.--
Section 1074m(a)(1)(B) of such title is amended by striking ``Until 
January 1, 2019, once'' and inserting ``Once''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) 
shall apply with respect to a date of redeployment that is on or after 
January 1, 2020.
    SEC. 707. PROVISION OF BLOOD TESTING FOR FIREFIGHTERS OF DEPARTMENT 
      OF DEFENSE TO DETERMINE EXPOSURE TO PERFLUOROALKYL AND 
      POLYFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES.
    (a) In General.--Beginning on October 1, 2020, the Secretary of 
Defense shall provide blood testing to determine and document potential 
exposure to perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances (commonly 
known as ``PFAS'') for each firefighter of the Department of Defense 
during the annual physical exam conducted by the Department for each 
such firefighter.
    (b) Firefighter Defined.--In this section, the term ``firefighter'' 
means someone whose primary job or military occupational specialty is 
being a firefighter.

                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

    SEC. 711. MODIFICATION OF ORGANIZATION OF MILITARY HEALTH SYSTEM.
    (a) Administration of Military Medical Treatment Facilities.--
Subsection (a) of section 1073c of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), (D), (E), 
        and (F) as subparagraphs (C), (D), (E), (G), (H), and (I), 
        respectively;
            (B) by inserting before subparagraph (C), as redesignated 
        by subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, the following new 
        subparagraphs:
        ``(A) provision and delivery of health care within each such 
    facility;
        ``(B) management of privileging, scope of practice, and quality 
    of health care provided within each such facility;''; and
            (C) by inserting after subparagraph (E), as so 
        redesignated, the following new subparagraph:
        ``(F) supply and equipment;'';
        (2) in paragraph (2)--
            (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (D), (E), (F), and (G) 
        as subparagraphs (E), (F), (H), and (I), respectively;
            (B) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following new 
        subparagraph (D):
        ``(D) to identify the capacity of each military medical 
    treatment facility to support clinical readiness standards of 
    health care providers established by the Secretary of a military 
    department or the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health 
    Affairs;'' and
            (C) by striking subparagraph (F), as redesignated by 
        subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, and inserting the following 
        new subparagraphs:
        ``(F) to determine, in coordination with each Secretary of a 
    military department, manning, including joint manning, assigned to 
    military medical treatment facilities and intermediary 
    organizations;
        ``(G) to select, after considering nominations from the 
    Secretaries of the military departments, commanders or directors of 
    military medical treatment facilities;''; and
        (3) in paragraph (3)--
            (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                (i) by inserting ``on behalf of the military 
            departments,'' before ``ensuring''; and
                (ii) by striking ``and civilian employees''; and
            (B) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``on behalf of the 
        Defense Health Agency,'' before ``furnishing''.
    (b) DHA Assistant Director.--Subsection (b)(2) of such section is 
amended by striking ``equivalent education and experience'' and all 
that follows and inserting ``the education and experience to perform 
the responsibilities of the position.''.
    (c) DHA Deputy Assistant Directors.--Subsection (c) of such section 
is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking ``across the military 
    health system'' and inserting ``at military medical treatment 
    facilities''; and
        (2) in paragraph (4)(B), by inserting ``at military medical 
    treatment facilities'' before the period at the end.
    (d) Treatment of Department of Defense for Purposes of Personnel 
Assignment.--Such section is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
    subsection (f):
    ``(f) Treatment of Department of Defense for Purposes of Personnel 
Assignment.--In implementing this section--
        ``(1) the Department of Defense shall be considered a single 
    agency for purposes of civilian personnel assignment under title 5; 
    and
        ``(2) the Secretary of Defense may reassign any employee of a 
    component of the Department of Defense or a military department in 
    a position in the civil service (as defined in section 2101 of 
    title 5) to any other component of the Department of Defense or 
    military department.''.
    (e) Military Medical Treatment Facility.--Subsection (g) of such 
section, as redesignated by subsection (d)(1), is amended by adding at 
the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) The term `military medical treatment facility' means--
            ``(A) any fixed facility of the Department of Defense that 
        is outside of a deployed environment and used primarily for 
        health care; and
            ``(B) any other location used for purposes of providing 
        health care services as designated by the Secretary of 
        Defense.''.
    (f) Technical Amendments.--Subsection (a) of such section is 
amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``paragraph (4)'' and 
    inserting ``paragraph (5)'';
        (2) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6);
        (3) by redesignating the first paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); 
    and
        (4) by moving the second paragraph (4) so as to appear before 
    paragraph (5), as redesignated by paragraph (3) of this subsection.
    SEC. 712. SUPPORT BY MILITARY HEALTH SYSTEM OF MEDICAL REQUIREMENTS 
      OF COMBATANT COMMANDS.
    (a) In General.--Section 712 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by amending paragraph (1) to read as 
    follows:
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall, acting 
    through the Secretaries of the military departments, the Defense 
    Health Agency, and the Joint Staff, implement an organizational 
    framework of the military health system that effectively and 
    efficiently implements chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, 
    to maximize the readiness of the medical force, promote 
    interoperability, and integrate medical capabilities of the Armed 
    Forces in order to enhance joint military medical operations in 
    support of requirements of the combatant commands.'';
        (2) in subsection (e), by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) 
    as paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively, and by moving such 
    paragraphs so as to appear at the end of subsection (d);
        (3) by striking subsection (e), as amended by paragraph (2) of 
    this subsection;
        (4) by redesignating subsections (b) through (d) as subsections 
    (c) through (e), respectively;
        (5) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
    subsection (b):
    ``(b) Additional Duties of Surgeons General of the Armed Forces.--
The Surgeons General of the Armed Forces shall have the following 
duties:
        ``(1) To ensure the readiness for operational deployment of 
    medical and dental personnel and deployable medical or dental teams 
    or units of the Armed Force or Armed Forces concerned.
        ``(2) To meet medical readiness standards, subject to standards 
    and metrics established by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
    Health Affairs.
        ``(3) With respect to uniformed medical and dental personnel of 
    the military department concerned--
            ``(A) to assign such personnel--
                ``(i) primarily to military medical treatment 
            facilities, under the operational control of the commander 
            or director of the facility; or
                ``(ii) secondarily to partnerships with civilian or 
            other medical facilities for training activities specific 
            to such military department; and
            ``(B) to maintain readiness of such personnel for 
        operational deployment.
        ``(4) To provide logistical support for operational deployment 
    of medical and dental personnel and deployable medical or dental 
    teams or units of the Armed Force or Armed Forces concerned.
        ``(5) To oversee mobilization and demobilization in connection 
    with the operational deployment of medical and dental personnel of 
    the Armed Force or Armed Forces concerned.
        ``(6) To develop operational medical capabilities required to 
    support the warfighter, and to develop policy relating to such 
    capabilities.
        ``(7) To provide health professionals to serve in leadership 
    positions across the military healthcare system.
        ``(8) To deliver operational clinical services under the 
    operational control of the combatant commands--
            ``(A) on ships and planes; and
            ``(B) on installations outside of military medical 
        treatment facilities.
        ``(9) To manage privileging, scope of practice, and quality of 
    health care in the settings described in paragraph (8).'';
        (6) in subsection (c), as redesignated by paragraph (4) of this 
    subsection--
            (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``Agency'' 
        before ``Regions''; and
            (B) in paragraph (1)--
                (i) in the paragraph heading, by inserting ``Agency'' 
            before ``regions''; and
                (ii) by striking ``defense health'' and inserting 
            ``Defense Health Agency'';
        (7) in subsection (d), as redesignated by paragraph (4) of this 
    subsection--
            (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``Agency'' 
        before ``Regions'';
            (B) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``defense health'' and inserting ``Defense Health Agency''; and
            (C) in paragraph (3), by striking ``subsection (b)'' and 
        inserting ``subsection (c)''; and
        (8) in subsection (e), as redesignated by paragraph (4) of this 
    subsection--
            (A) in paragraph (2)--
                (i) by amending subparagraph (A) to read as follows:
            ``(A) In general.--The Secretaries of the military 
        departments shall coordinate with the Chairman of the Joint 
        Chiefs of Staff to direct resources allocated to the military 
        departments to support requirements related to readiness and 
        operational medicine support that are established by the 
        combatant commands and validated by the Joint Staff.''; and
                (ii) in subparagraph (B), in the matter preceding 
            clause (i), by striking ``Based on'' and all that follows 
            through ``shall--'' and inserting ``The Director of the 
            Defense Health Agency, in coordination with the Assistant 
            Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs, shall--'';
            (B) in paragraph (3), as moved and redesignated by 
        paragraph (2) of this subsection, in the second sentence--
                (i) by inserting ``primarily'' before ``through''; and
                (ii) by inserting``, in coordination with the 
            Secretaries of the military departments,'' after ``the 
            Defense Health Agency''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(5) Manpower.--
            ``(A) Administrative control of military personnel.--Each 
        Secretary of a military department shall exercise 
        administrative control of members of the Armed Forces assigned 
        to military medical treatment facilities, including personnel 
        assignment and issuance of military orders.
            ``(B) Oversight of certain personnel by the director of the 
        defense health agency.--In situations in which members of the 
        Armed Forces provide health care services at a military medical 
        treatment facility, the Director of the Defense Health Agency 
        shall maintain operational control over such members and 
        oversight for the provision of care delivered by such members 
        through policies, procedures, and privileging responsibilities 
        of the military medical treatment facility.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) Heading amendment.--The heading for section 712 of the John 
    S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 
    (Public Law 115-232) is amended to read as follows:
    ``SEC. 712. SUPPORT BY MILITARY HEALTHCARE SYSTEM OF MEDICAL 
      REQUIREMENTS OF COMBATANT COMMANDS.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents for such Act is 
    amended by striking the item relating to section 712 and inserting 
    the following new item:

``Sec. 712. Support by military healthcare system of medical 
          requirements of combatant commands.''.
    SEC. 713. REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN PRESCRIPTION DRUG LABELS.
    (a) Requirement.--Section 1074g of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (h) and (i) as subsections (i) 
    and (j), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (g) the following new 
    subsection (h):
    ``(h) Labeling.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that drugs 
made available through the facilities of the armed forces under the 
jurisdiction of the Secretary include labels and other labeling that 
are in compliance with the requirements of the Federal Food, Drug, and 
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.).''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Subsection (b)(1) of such section is 
amended by striking ``under subsection (h)'' and inserting ``under 
subsection (j)''.
    (c) Implementation.--Beginning not later than 90 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
implement subsection (h) of section 1074g of title 10, United States 
Code, as added by subsection (a).
    SEC. 714. OFFICERS AUTHORIZED TO COMMAND ARMY DENTAL UNITS.
    Section 7081(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``Dental Corps Officer'' and inserting ``commissioned officer 
of the Army Medical Department''.
    SEC. 715. IMPROVEMENTS TO INTERAGENCY PROGRAM OFFICE OF THE 
      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AND THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
    (a) Leadership.--Subsection (c) of section 1635 of the Wounded 
Warrior Act (title XVI of Public Law 110-181; 10 U.S.C. 1071 note) is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Leadership.--
        ``(1) Director.--The Director of the Office shall be the head 
    of the Office.
        ``(2) Deputy director.--The Deputy Director of the Office shall 
    be the deputy head of the Office and shall assist the Director in 
    carrying out the duties of the Director.
        ``(3) Reporting.--The Director shall report directly to the 
    Deputy Secretary of Defense and the Deputy Secretary of Veterans 
    Affairs.
        ``(4) Appointments.--
            ``(A) Director.--The Director shall be appointed by the 
        Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of 
        Veterans Affairs, for a fixed term of four years. For the 
        subsequent term, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, with the 
        concurrence of the Secretary of Defense, shall appoint the 
        Director for a fixed term of four years, and thereafter, the 
        appointment of the Director for a fixed term of four years 
        shall alternate between the Secretaries.
            ``(B) Deputy director.--The Deputy Director shall be 
        appointed by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, with the 
        concurrence of the Secretary of Defense, for a fixed term of 
        four years. For the subsequent term, the Secretary of Defense, 
        with the concurrence of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, 
        shall appoint the Deputy Director for a fixed term of four 
        years, and thereafter, the appointment of the Deputy Director 
        for a fixed term of four years shall alternate between the 
        Secretaries.
            ``(C) Minimum qualifications.--The Secretary of Defense and 
        the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall jointly develop 
        qualification requirements for the Director and the Deputy 
        Director. Such requirements shall ensure that, at a minimum, 
        the Director and Deputy Director, individually or together, 
        meet the following qualifications:
                ``(i) Significant experience at a senior management 
            level fielding enterprise-wide technology in a health care 
            setting, or business systems in the public or private 
            sector.
                ``(ii) Credentials for enterprise-wide program 
            management.
                ``(iii) Significant experience leading implementation 
            of complex organizational change by integrating the input 
            of experts from various disciplines, such as clinical, 
            business, management, informatics, and technology.
        ``(5) Succession.--The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary 
    of Veterans Affairs shall jointly develop a leadership succession 
    process for the Office.
        ``(6) Additional guidance.--The Department of Veterans Affairs-
    Department of Defense Joint Executive Committee may provide 
    guidance in the discharge of the functions of the Office under this 
    section.
        ``(7) Information to congress.--Upon request by any of the 
    appropriate committees of Congress, the Director and the Deputy 
    Director shall testify before such committee, or provide a briefing 
    or otherwise provide requested information to such committee, 
    regarding the discharge of the functions of the Office under this 
    section.''.
    (b) Authority.--Paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of such section is 
amended by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``The Office 
shall carry out decision making authority delegated to the Office by 
the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs with 
respect to the definition, coordination, and management of functional, 
technical, and programmatic activities that are jointly used, carried 
out, and shared by the Departments.''.
    (c) Purposes.--Paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of such section is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
            ``(C) To develop and implement a comprehensive 
        interoperability strategy, which shall include--
                ``(i) the Electronic Health Record Modernization 
            Program of the Department of Veterans Affairs; and
                ``(ii) the Healthcare Management System Modernization 
            Program of the Department of Defense.
            ``(D) To pursue the highest level of interoperability for 
        the delivery of health care by the Department of Defense and 
        the Department of Veterans Affairs.
            ``(E) To accelerate the exchange of health care information 
        between the Departments, and advances in the health information 
        technology marketplace, in order to support the delivery of 
        health care by the Departments.
            ``(F) To collect the operational and strategic requirements 
        of the Departments relating to the strategy under subsection 
        (a) and communicate such requirements and activities to the 
        Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information 
        Technology of the Department of Health and Human Services for 
        the purpose of implementing title IV of the 21st Century Cures 
        Act (division A of Public Law 114-255), and the amendments made 
        by that title, and other objectives of the Office of the 
        National Coordinator for Health Information Technology.
            ``(G) To plan for and effectuate the broadest possible 
        implementation of standards, specifically with respect to the 
        Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources standard or 
        successor standard, the evolution of such standards, and the 
        obsolescence of such standards.
            ``(H) To actively engage with national and international 
        health standards setting organizations, including by taking 
        membership in such organizations, to ensure that standards 
        established by such organizations meet the needs of the 
        Departments pursuant to the strategy under subsection (a), and 
        oversee and approve adoption of and mapping to such standards 
        by the Departments.
            ``(I) To express the content and format of health data of 
        the Departments using a common language to improve the exchange 
        of data between the Departments and with the private sector, 
        and to ensure that clinicians of the Departments have access to 
        integrated, computable, comprehensive health records of 
        patients.
            ``(J) To inform the Chief Information Officer of the 
        Department of Defense and the Chief Information Officer of the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs of any activities of the Office 
        affecting or relevant to cybersecurity.
            ``(K) To establish an environment that will enable and 
        encourage the adoption by the Departments of innovative 
        technologies for health care delivery.
            ``(L) To leverage data integration to advance health 
        research and develop an evidence base for the health care 
        programs of the Departments.
            ``(M) To prioritize the use of open systems architecture by 
        the Departments.
            ``(N) To ensure ownership and control by patients of 
        personal health information and data in a manner consistent 
        with applicable law.
            ``(O) To prevent contractors of the Departments or other 
        non-departmental entities from owning or having exclusive 
        control over patient health data, for the purposes of 
        protecting patient privacy and enhancing opportunities for 
        innovation.
            ``(P) To implement a single lifetime longitudinal personal 
        health record between the Department of Defense and the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs.
            ``(Q) To attain interoperability capabilities--
                ``(i) sufficient to enable the provision of seamless 
            health care by health care facilities and providers of the 
            Departments, as well as private sector facilities and 
            providers contracted by the Departments; and
                ``(ii) that are more adaptable and far reaching than 
            those achievable through biodirectional information 
            exchange between electronic health records of the exchange 
            of read-only data alone.
            ``(R) To make maximum use of open-application program 
        interfaces and the Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources 
        standard (or successor standard).''.
    (d) Implementation Milestones.--Subsection (e) of such section is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(e) Implementation Milestones.--
        ``(1) Evaluation.--With respect to the electronic health record 
    systems of the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans 
    Affairs, the Office shall seek to enter into an agreement with an 
    independent entity to conduct an evaluation by not later than 
    October 1, 2021 of the following:
            ``(A) Whether a clinician of the Department of Defense, can 
        access, and meaningfully interact with, a complete patient 
        health record of a veteran, from a military medical treatment 
        facility.
            ``(B) Whether a clinician of the Department of Veterans 
        Affairs can access, and meaningfully interact with, a complete 
        patient health record of a member of the Armed Forces serving 
        on active duty, from a medical center of the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs.
            ``(C) Whether clinicians of the Departments can access, and 
        meaningfully interact with, the data elements of the health 
        record of a patient who is a veteran or is a member of the 
        Armed Forces which are generated when the individual receives 
        health care from a community care provider of the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs or a TRICARE program provider of the 
        Department of Defense.
            ``(D) Whether a community care provider of the Department 
        of the Veterans Affairs and a TRICARE program provider of the 
        Department of Defense on a Health Information Exchange-
        supported electronic health record can access patient health 
        records of veterans and active-duty members of the Armed Forces 
        from the system of the provider.
            ``(E) An assessment of interoperability between the legacy 
        electronic health record systems and the future electronic 
        health record systems of the Department of Veterans Affairs and 
        the Department of Defense.
            ``(F) An assessment of the use of interoperable content 
        between--
                ``(i) the legacy electronic health record systems and 
            the future electronic health record systems of the 
            Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of 
            Defense; and
                ``(ii) third-party applications.
        ``(2) System configuration management.--The Office shall--
            ``(A) maintain the common configuration baseline for the 
        electronic health record systems of the Department of Defense 
        and the Department of Veterans Affairs; and
            ``(B) continually evaluate the state of configuration and 
        the impacts on interoperability; and
            ``(C) promote the enhancement of such electronic health 
        records systems.
        ``(3) Consultation.--
            ``(A) Annual meeting required.--Not less than once per 
        year, the Office shall convene a meeting of clinical staff from 
        the Department of Defense, the Department of Veterans Affairs, 
        the Coast Guard, community providers, and other leading 
        clinical experts, for the purpose of assessing the state of 
        clinical use of the electronic health record systems and 
        whether the systems are meeting clinical and patient needs.
            ``(B) Recommendations.--Clinical staff participating in a 
        meeting under subparagraph (A) shall make recommendations to 
        the Office on the need for any improvements or concerns with 
        the electronic health record systems.
        ``(4) Clinical and patient satisfaction survey.--Beginning 
    October 1, 2021, and on at least a biannual basis thereafter until 
    2025 at the earliest, the Office shall undertake a clinician and 
    patient satisfaction survey regarding clinical use and patient 
    experience with the electronic health record systems of the 
    Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs.''.
    (e) Resources and Staffing.--Subsection (g) of such section is 
amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting before the period at the end 
    the following: ``, including the assignment of clinical or 
    technical personnel of the Department of Defense or the Department 
    of Veterans Affairs to the Office''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(3) Cost sharing.--The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary 
    of Veterans shall enter into an agreement on cost sharing and 
    providing resources for the operations and staffing of the Office.
        ``(4) Hiring authority.--The Secretary of Defense and the 
    Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall delegate to the Director the 
    authority under title 5, United States Code, regarding appointments 
    in the competitive service to hire personnel of the Office.''.
    (f) Reports.--Subsection (h) of such section is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(h) Reports.--
        ``(1) Annual reports.--Not later than September 30, 2020, and 
    each year thereafter through 2024, the Director shall submit to the 
    Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and to 
    the appropriate committees of Congress, a report on the activities 
    of the Office during the preceding calendar year. Each report shall 
    include the following:
            ``(A) A detailed description of the activities of the 
        Office during the year covered by such report, including a 
        detailed description of the amounts expended and the purposes 
        for which expended.
            ``(B) With respect to the objectives of the strategy under 
        paragraph (2)(C) of subsection (b), and the purposes of the 
        Office under such subsection--
                ``(i) a discussion, description, and assessment of the 
            progress made by the Department of Defense and the 
            Department of Veterans Affairs during the preceding 
            calendar year; and
                ``(ii) a discussion and description of the goals of the 
            Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans 
            Affairs for the following calendar year, including updates 
            to strategies and plans.
            ``(C) A detailed financial summary of the activities of the 
        Office, including the funds allocated to the Office by each 
        Department, the expenditures made, and an assessment as to 
        whether the current funding is sufficient to carry out the 
        activities of the Office.
            ``(D) A detailed description of the status of each of the 
        implementation milestones, including the nature of the 
        evaluation, methodology for testing, and findings with respect 
        to each milestone under subsection (e).
            ``(E) A detailed description of the state of the 
        configuration baseline, including any activities which 
        decremented or enhanced the state of configuration under 
        subsection (e).
            ``(F) With respect to the annual meeting required under 
        subsection (e)(3)--
                ``(i) a detailed description of activities, 
            assessments, and recommendations relating to such meeting; 
            and
                ``(ii) the response of the Office to any such 
            recommendations.
        ``(2) Availability.--Each report under this subsection shall be 
    made publicly available.''.
    (g) Definitions.--Such section is further amended by adding at the 
end the following new subsection (k):
    ``(k) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `appropriate congressional committees' means--
            ``(A) the congressional defense committees; and
            ``(B) the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives and the Senate.
        ``(2) The term `configuration baseline' means a fixed reference 
    in the development cycle or an agreed-upon specification of a 
    product at a point in time that serves as a documented basis for 
    defining incremental change in all aspects of an information 
    technology product.
        ``(3) The term `Electronic Health Record Modernization Program' 
    has the meaning given that term in section 503 of the Veterans 
    Benefits and Transition Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-407; 132 Stat. 
    5376).
        ``(4) The term `interoperability' means the ability of 
    different information systems, devices, or applications to connect, 
    regardless of the technology platform or the location where care is 
    provided--
            ``(A) in a coordinated and secure manner, within and across 
        organizational boundaries, and across the complete spectrum of 
        care, including all applicable care settings;
            ``(B) with relevant stakeholders, including the person 
        whose information is being shared, to access, exchange, 
        integrate, and use computable data regardless of the origin or 
        destination of the data or the applications employed;
            ``(C) with the capability to reliably exchange information 
        without error;
            ``(D) with the ability to interpret and to make effective 
        use of such exchanged information;
            ``(E) with the ability for information that can be used to 
        advance patient care to move between health care entities; and
            ``(F) without additional intervention by the end user.
        ``(5) The term `meaningfully interact' means the ability to 
    view, consume, act upon, and edit information in a clinical setting 
    to facilitate high-quality clinical decision making.
        ``(6) The term `seamless health care' means health care which 
    is optimized through access by patients and clinicians to 
    integrated, relevant, and complete information about the clinical 
    experiences of the patient, social and environmental determinants 
    of health, and health trends over time, in order to enable patients 
    and clinicians to--
            ``(A) move efficiently within and across organizational 
        boundaries;
            ``(B) make high-quality decisions; and
            ``(C) effectively carry out complete plans of care.
        ``(7) The term `Secretary concerned' means--
            ``(A) the Secretary of Defense, with respect to matters 
        concerning the Department of Defense;
            ``(B) the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, with respect to 
        matters concerning the Department of Veterans Affairs; and
            ``(C) the Secretary of Homeland Security, with respect to 
        matters concerning the Coast Guard when it is not operating as 
        a service in the Department of the Navy.
        ``(8) The term `TRICARE program' has the meaning given that 
    term in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.''.
    (h) Interoperability Strategy.--
        (1) Report required.--Not later than 270 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to each 
    Secretary concerned and to the appropriate congressional committees 
    a report that contains a comprehensive interoperability strategy 
    with respect to electronic health records jointly developed by the 
    Secretary of Defense and Secretary of Veterans Affairs, including 
    any accompanying or associated implementation plans and supporting 
    plans.
        (2) Elements.--The comprehensive interoperability strategy 
    under paragraph (1) shall discuss the purposes described in 
    paragraphs (K) through (R) of section 1635(b)(2) of the Wounded 
    Warrior Act (title XVI of Public Law 110-181; 10 U.S.C. 1071 note), 
    as amended by subsection (c).
        (3) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            (A) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
        means--
                (i) the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
            the House of Representatives; and
                (ii) the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate 
            and the House of Representatives.
            (B) The term ``Director'' means the individual described in 
        section 1635(c) of the Wounded Warrior Act (title XVI of Public 
        Law 110-181; 10 U.S.C. 1071 note), as amended by subsection 
        (a).
            (C) The term ``interoperability'' has the meaning given 
        that term in subsection (k) of such section, as added by 
        subsection (g).
    (i) Conforming Repeal.--Section 713 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 10 U.S.C. 
1071 note) is repealed.
    SEC. 716. EXPANSION OF STRATEGY TO IMPROVE ACQUISITION OF MANAGED 
      CARE SUPPORT CONTRACTS UNDER TRICARE PROGRAM.
    Section 705(c)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 10 U.S.C. 1073a note) is amended, 
in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking ``, other than 
overseas medical support contracts''.
    SEC. 717. INCLUSION OF BLAST EXPOSURE HISTORY IN MEDICAL RECORDS OF 
      MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Requirement.--If a covered incident occurs with respect to a 
member of the Armed Forces, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination 
with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall document blast 
exposure history in the medical record of the member to assist in 
determining whether a future illness or injury of the member is 
service-connected and inform future blast exposure risk mitigation 
efforts of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Elements.--A blast exposure history under subsection (a) shall 
include, at a minimum, the following:
        (1) The date of the exposure.
        (2) The duration of the exposure, and, if known, the measured 
    blast pressure experienced by the individual during such exposure.
        (3) Whether the exposure occurred during combat or training.
    (c) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on the types of information included in a 
blast exposure history under subsection (a).
    (d) Covered Incident Defined.--In this section, the term ``covered 
incident'' means a concussive event or injury that requires a military 
acute concussive evaluation by a skilled health care provider.
    SEC. 718. COMPREHENSIVE POLICY FOR PROVISION OF MENTAL HEALTH CARE 
      TO MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Policy Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, acting through the 
Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, shall develop 
and implement a comprehensive policy for the provision of mental health 
care to members of the Armed Forces.
    (b) Elements.--The policy under subsection (a) shall address each 
of the following:
        (1) The compliance of health professionals in the military 
    health system engaged in the provision of health care services to 
    members with clinical practice guidelines for--
            (A) suicide prevention;
            (B) medication-assisted therapy for alcohol use disorders; 
        and
            (C) medication-assisted therapy for opioid use disorders.
        (2) The access and availability of mental health care services 
    to members who are victims of sexual assault or domestic violence.
        (3) The availability of naloxone reversal capability on 
    military installations.
        (4) The promotion of referrals of members by civilian health 
    care providers to military medical treatment facilities when such 
    members are--
            (A) at high risk for suicide and diagnosed with a 
        psychiatric disorder; or
            (B) receiving treatment for opioid use disorders.
        (5) The provision of comprehensive behavioral health treatment 
    to members of the reserve components that takes into account the 
    unique challenges associated with the deployment pattern of such 
    members and the difficulty such members encounter post-deployment 
    with respect to accessing such treatment in civilian communities.
    (c) Consideration.--In developing the policy under subsection (a), 
the Secretary of Defense shall solicit and consider recommendations 
from the Secretaries of the military departments and the Chairman of 
the Joint Chiefs of Staff regarding the feasibility of implementation 
and execution of particular elements of the policy.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on the implementation of the policy under 
subsection (a).
    SEC. 719. LIMITATION ON THE REALIGNMENT OR REDUCTION OF MILITARY 
      MEDICAL MANNING END STRENGTH.
    (a) Limitation.--Except as provided by subsection (d), the 
Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries concerned may not realign or 
reduce military medical end strength authorizations until--
        (1) each review is conducted under paragraph (1) of subsection 
    (b);
        (2) each analysis is conducted under paragraph (2) of such 
    subsection;
        (3) the measurement is developed under paragraph (3) of such 
    subsection;
        (4) each plan and forum is provided under paragraph (4) of such 
    subsection; and
        (5) a period of 90 days elapses following the date on which the 
    Secretary submits the report under subsection (c).
    (b) Reviews, Analyses, and Other Information.--
        (1) Review.--Each Secretary concerned, in coordination with the 
    Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, shall conduct a review of 
    the medical manpower requirements of the military department of the 
    Secretary that accounts for all national defense strategy 
    scenarios.
        (2) Analyses.--With respect to each military medical treatment 
    facility that would be affected by a proposed military medical end 
    strength realignment or reduction, the Secretary concerned shall 
    conduct an analysis that--
            (A) identifies affected billets; and
            (B) includes a plan for mitigating any potential gap in 
        health care services caused by such realignment or reduction.
        (3) Measurement.--The Secretary of Defense shall--
            (A) develop a standard measurement for network adequacy to 
        determine the capacity of the local health care network to 
        provide care for covered beneficiaries in the area of a 
        military medical treatment facility that would be affected by a 
        proposed military medical end strength realignment or 
        reduction; and
            (B) use such measurement in carrying out this section and 
        otherwise evaluating proposed military medical end strength 
        realignment or reductions.
        (4) Outreach.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide to each 
    member of the Armed Forces and covered beneficiary located in the 
    area of a military medical treatment facility that would be 
    affected by a proposed military medical end strength realignment or 
    reduction the following:
            (A) A transition plan for continuity of health care 
        services.
            (B) A public forum to discuss the concerns of the member 
        and covered beneficiary regarding such proposed realignment or 
        reduction.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate a report on the proposed military medical end strength 
realignments or reductions, including--
        (1) the reviews, analyses, and other information developed 
    under subsection (b); and
        (2) a description of the actions the Secretary plans to take 
    with respect to such proposed realignments or reductions.
    (d) Exception.--
        (1) In general.--The limitation in subsection (a) shall not 
    apply--
            (A) to administrative billets of a medical department of a 
        military department that have remained unfilled since at least 
        October 1, 2018;
            (B) to billets identified as non-clinical in the budget of 
        the President for fiscal year 2020 submitted to Congress 
        pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, 
        except that the amount of such billets shall not exceed 1,700; 
        and
            (C) to medical headquarters billets of the military 
        departments not assigned or directly supporting to operational 
        commands.
        (2) Determination prior to realignment or reduction.--The 
    Secretary concerned may realign or reduce a billet described in 
    paragraph (1) if the Secretary determines that such realignment or 
    reduction does not affect the provision of health care services to 
    members of the Armed Forces or covered beneficiaries.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``covered beneficiary'' has the meaning given that 
    term in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
        (2) The term ``proposed military medical end strength 
    realignment or reduction'' means a realignment or reduction of 
    military medical end strength authorizations as proposed by the 
    budget of the President for fiscal year 2020 submitted to Congress 
    pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United States Code.
        (3) The term ``Secretary concerned'' means--
            (A) the Secretary of the Army, with respect to matters 
        concerning the Army;
            (B) the Secretary of the Navy, with respect to matters 
        concerning the Navy, the Marine Corps, and the Coast Guard when 
        it is operating as a service in the Department of the Navy; and
            (C) the Secretary of the Air Force, with respect to matters 
        concerning the Air Force.
    SEC. 720. STRATEGY TO RECRUIT AND RETAIN MENTAL HEALTH PROVIDERS.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report that--
        (1) describes the shortage of mental health providers of the 
    Department of Defense;
        (2) explains the reasons for such shortage;
        (3) explains the effect of such shortage on members of the 
    Armed Forces; and
        (4) contains a strategy to better recruit and retain mental 
    health providers, including with respect to psychiatrists, 
    psychologists, mental health nurse practitioners, licensed social 
    workers, and other licensed providers of the military health 
    system, in a manner that addresses the need for cultural competence 
    and diversity among such mental health providers.
    SEC. 721. DEVELOPMENT OF PARTNERSHIPS TO IMPROVE COMBAT CASUALTY 
      CARE FOR PERSONNEL OF THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Partnerships.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, through the Joint 
    Trauma Education and Training Directorate established under section 
    708 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
    (Public Law 114-328; 10 U.S.C. 1071 note), may develop partnerships 
    with civilian academic medical centers and large metropolitan 
    teaching hospitals to improve combat casualty care for personnel of 
    the Armed Forces.
        (2) Partnerships with level i trauma centers.--In carrying out 
    partnerships under paragraph (1), trauma surgeons and physicians of 
    the Department of Defense may partner with level I civilian trauma 
    centers to provide training and readiness for the next generation 
    of medical providers to treat critically injured burn patients.
    (b) Support of Partnerships.--The Secretary of Defense may make 
every effort to support partnerships under the Joint Trauma Education 
and Training Directorate with academic institutions that have level I 
civilian trauma centers, specifically those centers with a burn center, 
that offer burn rotations and clinical experience to provide training 
and readiness for the next generation of medical providers to treat 
critically injured burn patients.
    (c) Level I Civilian Trauma Center Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``level I civilian trauma center'' has the meaning given that term 
in section 708 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 10 U.S.C. 1071 note).
    SEC. 722. MODIFICATION TO REFERRALS FOR MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES.
    If the Secretary of Defense is unable to provide mental health 
services in a military medical treatment facility to a member of the 
Armed Forces within 15 days of the date on which such services are 
first requested by the member, the Secretary may refer the member to a 
provider under the TRICARE program (as that term is defined in section 
1072 of title 10, United States Code) to receive such services.

                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

    SEC. 731. AUTHORIZATION OF CLAIMS BY MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED 
      SERVICES AGAINST THE UNITED STATES FOR PERSONAL INJURY OR DEATH 
      CAUSED BY MEDICAL MALPRACTICE.
    (a) Medical Malpractice Claims.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 163 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by inserting after section 2733 the following new 
    section:
``Sec. 2733a. Medical malpractice claims by members of the uniformed 
     services
    ``(a) In General.--Consistent with this section and under such 
regulations as the Secretary of Defense shall prescribe under 
subsection (f), the Secretary may allow, settle, and pay a claim 
against the United States for personal injury or death incident to the 
service of a member of the uniformed services that was caused by the 
medical malpractice of a Department of Defense health care provider.
    ``(b) Requirement for Claims.--A claim may be allowed, settled, and 
paid under subsection (a) only if--
        ``(1) the claim is filed by the member of the uniformed 
    services who is the subject of the medical malpractice claimed, or 
    by an authorized representative on behalf of such member who is 
    deceased or otherwise unable to file the claim due to 
    incapacitation;
        ``(2) the claim is for personal injury or death caused by the 
    negligent or wrongful act or omission of a Department of Defense 
    health care provider in the performance of medical, dental, or 
    related health care functions while such provider was acting within 
    the scope of employment;
        ``(3) the act or omission constituting medical malpractice 
    occurred in a covered military medical treatment facility;
        ``(4) the claim is presented to the Department in writing 
    within two years after the claim accrues;
        ``(5) the claim is not allowed to be settled and paid under any 
    other provision of law; and
        ``(6) the claim is substantiated as prescribed in regulations 
    prescribed by the Secretary of Defense under subsection (f).
    ``(c) Liability.--(1) The Department of Defense is liable for only 
the portion of compensable injury, loss, or damages attributable to the 
medical malpractice of a Department of Defense health care provider.
    ``(2) The Department of Defense shall not be liable for the 
attorney fees of a claimant under this section.
    ``(d) Payment of Claims.--(1) If the Secretary of Defense 
determines, pursuant to regulations prescribed by the Secretary under 
subsection (f), that a claim under this section in excess of $100,000 
is meritorious, and the claim is otherwise payable under this section, 
the Secretary may pay the claimant $100,000 and report any meritorious 
amount in excess of $100,000 to the Secretary of the Treasury for 
payment under section 1304 of title 31.
    ``(2) Except as provided in paragraph (1), no claim may be paid 
under this section unless the amount tendered is accepted by the 
claimant in full satisfaction.
    ``(e) Reporting Medical Malpractice.--Not later than 30 days after 
a determination of medical malpractice or the payment of all or part of 
a claim under this section, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
the Director of the Defense Health Agency a report documenting such 
determination or payment to be used by the Director for all necessary 
and appropriate purposes, including medical quality assurance.
    ``(f) Regulations.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe 
regulations to implement this section.
    ``(2) Regulations prescribed by the Secretary under paragraph (1) 
shall include the following:
        ``(A) Policies and procedures to ensure the timely, efficient, 
    and effective processing and administration of claims under this 
    section, including--
            ``(i) the filing, receipt, investigation, and evaluation of 
        a claim;
            ``(ii) the negotiation, settlement, and payment of a claim;
            ``(iii) such other matters relating to the processing and 
        administration of a claim, including an administrative appeals 
        process, as the Secretary considers appropriate.
        ``(B) Uniform standards consistent with generally accepted 
    standards used in a majority of States in adjudicating claims under 
    chapter 171 of title 28 (commonly known as the `Federal Tort Claims 
    Act') to be applied to the evaluation, settlement, and payment of 
    claims under this section without regard to the place of occurrence 
    of the medical malpractice giving rise to the claim or the military 
    department or service of the member of the uniformed services, and 
    without regard to foreign law in the case of claims arising in 
    foreign countries, including uniform standards to be applied to 
    determinations with respect to--
            ``(i) whether an act or omission by a Department of Defense 
        health care provider in the context of performing medical, 
        dental, or related health care functions was negligent or 
        wrongful, considering the specific facts and circumstances;
            ``(ii) whether the personal injury or death of the member 
        was caused by a negligent or wrongful act or omission of a 
        Department of Defense health care provider in the context of 
        performing medical, dental, or related health care functions, 
        considering the specific facts and circumstances;
            ``(iii) requirements relating to proof of duty, breach of 
        duty, and causation resulting in compensable injury or loss, 
        subject to such exclusions as may be established by the 
        Secretary of Defense; and
            ``(iv) calculation of damages.
        ``(C) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
    appropriate.
    ``(3) In order to implement expeditiously the provisions of this 
section, the Secretary may prescribe the regulations under this 
subsection--
        ``(A) by prescribing an interim final rule; and
        ``(B) not later than one year after prescribing such interim 
    final rule and considering public comments with respect to such 
    interim final rule, by prescribing a final rule.
    ``(g) Limitation on Attorney Fees.--(1) No attorney shall charge, 
demand, receive, or collect for services rendered, fees in excess of 20 
percent of any claim paid pursuant to this section.
    ``(2) Any attorney who charges, demands, receives, or collects for 
services rendered in connection with a claim under this section any 
amount in excess of the amount allowed under paragraph (1), if recovery 
be had, shall be fined not more than $2,000, imprisoned not more than 
one year, or both.
    ``(h) Annual Report.--Not less frequently than annually until 2025, 
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report--
        ``(1) indicating the number of claims processed under this 
    section;
        ``(2) indicating the resolution of each such claim; and
        ``(3) describing any other information that may enhance the 
    effectiveness of the claims process under this section.
    ``(i) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) Covered military medical treatment facility.--The term 
    `covered military medical treatment facility' means a facility 
    described in subsection (b), (c), or (d) of section 1073d of this 
    title.
        ``(2) Department of defense health care provider.--The term 
    `Department of Defense health care provider' means a member of the 
    uniformed services, civilian employee of the Department of Defense, 
    or personal services contractor of the Department (under section 
    1091 of this title) authorized by the Department to provide health 
    care services and acting within the scope of employment of such 
    individual.
        ``(3) Member of the uniformed services.--The term `member of 
    the uniformed services' includes a member of a reserve component of 
    the armed forces if the claim by the member under this section is 
    in connection with personal injury or death that occurred while the 
    member was in Federal status.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 163 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
    relating to section 2733 the following new item:

``2733a. Medical malpractice claims by members of the uniformed 
          services.''.

    (b) Interim Briefing on Development of Regulations.--Not later than 
180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Defense shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
and the House of Representatives a briefing on the development of 
regulations under section 2733a(f) of title 10, United States Code, as 
added by subsection (a)(1).
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) Section 2735 of such title is amended by striking ``2733,'' 
    and inserting ``2733, 2733a,''.
        (2) Section 1304(a)(3)(D) of title 31, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``2733,'' and inserting ``2733, 2733a,''.
    (d) Effective Date and Transition Provision.--
        (1) Effective date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
    apply to any claim filed under section 2733a of such title, as 
    added by subsection (a)(1), on or after January 1, 2020.
        (2) Transition.--Any claim filed in calendar year 2020 shall be 
    deemed to be filed within the time period specified in section 
    2733a(b)(4) of such title, as so added, if it is filed within three 
    years after it accrues.
    SEC. 732. EXTENSION AND CLARIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR JOINT 
      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE-DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL 
      FACILITY DEMONSTRATION FUND.
    Title XVII of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2567) is amended--
        (1) in section 1701--
            (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``Subject to subsection 
        (b), the'' and inserting ``The'';
            (B) by striking subsection (b); and
            (C) by redesignating subsections (c) through (f) as 
        subsections (b) through (e), respectively;
        (2) in section 1702(a)(1), by striking ``hereafter in this 
    title'' and inserting ``in this section'';
        (3) in section 1703, in subsections (a) and (c), by striking 
    ``the facility'' and inserting ``the James A. Lovell Federal Health 
    Care Center'';
        (4) in section 1704--
            (A) in subsections (a)(3), (a)(4)(A), and (b)(1), by 
        striking ``the facility'' and inserting ``the James A. Lovell 
        Federal Health Care Center''; and
            (B) in subsection (e), as most recently amended by section 
        731 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), by striking 
        ``September 30, 2020'' and inserting ``September 30, 2021'';
        (5) in section 1705--
            (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``the facility'' and 
        inserting ``the James A. Lovell Federal Health Care Center (in 
        this section referred to as the `JALFHCC')'';
            (B) in subsection (b), in the matter preceding paragraph 
        (1), by striking ``the facility'' and inserting ``the 
        JALFHCC''; and
            (C) in subsection (c)--
                (i) by striking ``the facility'' each place it appears 
            and inserting ``the JALFHCC''; and
                (ii) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(4) To permit the JALFHCC to enter into personal services 
    contracts to carry out health care responsibilities in the JALFHCC 
    to the same extent and subject to the same conditions and 
    limitations as apply under section 1091 of title 10, United States 
    Code, to the Secretary of Defense with respect to health care 
    responsibilities in medical treatment facilities of the Department 
    of Defense.''.
    SEC. 733. APPOINTMENT OF NON-EX OFFICIO MEMBERS OF THE HENRY M. 
      JACKSON FOUNDATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF MILITARY MEDICINE.
    (a) Appointment by Non-ex Officio Members.--Subparagraph (C) of 
paragraph (1) of section 178(c) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
        ``(C) six members, each of whom shall be appointed at the 
    expiration of the term of a member appointed under this 
    subparagraph, as provided for in paragraph (2), by the members 
    currently serving on the Council pursuant to this subparagraph and 
    paragraph (2), including the member whose expiring term is so being 
    filled by such appointment.''.
    (b) Repeal of Obsolete Authority Establishing Staggered Terms.--
Paragraph (2) of such section is amended--
        (1) by striking ``except that--'' and all that follows through 
    ``any person'' and inserting ``except that any person'';
        (2) by striking ``; and'' and inserting a period; and
        (3) by striking subparagraph (B).
    (c) Effective Date.--
        (1) In general.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
    effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.
        (2) Construction for current members.--Nothing in the 
    amendments made by this section shall be construed to terminate or 
    otherwise alter the appointment or term of service of members of 
    the Henry M. Jackson Foundation for the Advancement of Military 
    Medicine who are so serving on the date of the enactment of this 
    Act pursuant to an appointment under paragraph (1)(C) or (2) of 
    section 178(c) of title 10, United States Code, made before that 
    date.
    SEC. 734. ESTABLISHMENT OF ACADEMIC HEALTH SYSTEM IN NATIONAL 
      CAPITAL REGION.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 104 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 2113a the following new section:
``Sec. 2113b. Academic Health System
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may establish an 
Academic Health System to integrate the health care, health professions 
education, and health research activities of the military health 
system, including under this chapter, in the National Capital Region.
    ``(b) Leadership.--(1) The Secretary may appoint employees of the 
Department of Defense to leadership positions in the Academic Health 
System established under subsection (a).
    ``(2) Such positions may include responsibilities for management of 
the health care, health professions education, and health research 
activities described in subsection (a) and are in addition to similar 
leadership positions for members of the armed forces.
    ``(c) National Capital Region Defined.--In this section, the term 
`National Capital Region' means the area, or portion thereof, as 
determined by the Secretary, in the vicinity of the District of 
Columbia.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 104 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 2113a the following new item:

``2113b. Academic Health System.''.
    SEC. 735. PROVISION OF VETERINARY SERVICES BY VETERINARY 
      PROFESSIONALS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE IN EMERGENCIES.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 53 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 1060c. Provision of veterinary services in emergencies
    ``(a) In General.--A veterinary professional described in 
subsection (b) may provide veterinary services for the purposes 
described in subsection (c) in any State, the District of Columbia, or 
a territory or possession of the United States, without regard to where 
such veterinary professional or the patient animal are located, if the 
provision of such services is within the scope of the authorized duties 
of such veterinary professional for the Department of Defense.
    ``(b) Veterinary Professional Described.--A veterinary professional 
described in this subsection is an individual who is--
        ``(1)(A) a member of the armed forces, a civilian employee of 
    the Department of Defense, or otherwise credentialed and privileged 
    at a Federal veterinary institution or location designated by the 
    Secretary of Defense for purposes of this section; or
        ``(B) a member of the National Guard performing training or 
    duty under section 502(f) of title 32;
        ``(2) certified as a veterinary professional by a certification 
    recognized by the Secretary of Defense; and
        ``(3) currently licensed by a State, the District of Columbia, 
    or a territory or possession of the United States to provide 
    veterinary services.
    ``(c) Purposes Described.--The purposes described in this 
subsection are veterinary services in response to any of the following:
        ``(1) A national emergency declared by the President pursuant 
    to the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.).
        ``(2) A major disaster or an emergency (as those terms are 
    defined in section 102 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief 
    and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5122)).
        ``(3) A public health emergency declared by the Secretary of 
    Health and Human Services under section 319 of the Public Health 
    Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d).
        ``(4) An extraordinary emergency, as determined by the 
    Secretary of Agriculture under section 10407(b) of the Animal 
    Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8306(b)).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 53 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 1060b the following new item:

``1060c. Provision of veterinary services in emergencies.''.
    SEC. 736. THREE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CONTINUE THE DOD-VA 
      HEALTH CARE SHARING INCENTIVE FUND.
    Section 8111(d)(3) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2020'' and inserting, ``September 30, 2023''.
    SEC. 737. PRESERVATION OF RESOURCES OF THE ARMY MEDICAL RESEARCH 
      AND MATERIEL COMMAND AND CONTINUATION AS CENTER OF EXCELLENCE.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall preserve the 
resources of the Army Medical Research and Materiel Command for use by 
such command, which shall include manpower and funding, at not less 
than the level of such resources as of the date of the enactment of 
this Act until September 30, 2022.
    (b) Transfer of Funds.--On October 1, 2022, all amounts available 
for the Army Medical Research and Materiel Command shall be transferred 
from accounts for research, development, test, and evaluation for the 
Army to accounts for the Defense Health Program.
    (c) Continuation as Center of Excellence.--After September 30, 
2022, the Army Medical Research and Materiel Command and Fort Detrick 
shall continue to serve as a Center of Excellence for Joint Biomedical 
Research, Development and Acquisition Management for efforts undertaken 
under the Defense Health Program.
    SEC. 738. ENCOURAGEMENT OF PARTICIPATION IN WOMEN'S HEALTH 
      TRANSITION TRAINING PILOT PROGRAM.
    (a) Encouragement of Participation.--The Secretaries of the 
military departments shall encourage female members of the Armed Forces 
who are separating or retiring from the Armed Forces during fiscal year 
2020 to participate in the Women's Health Transition Training pilot 
program (in this section referred to as the ``pilot program'') 
administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
    (b) Selection.--Each Secretary of a military department shall 
select at least one location at which the pilot program is offered and 
encourage participation in the pilot program at such location.
    (c) Report.--Not later than September 30, 2020, the Secretary of 
Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, shall 
submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House 
of Representatives and the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the 
Senate and House of Representatives a report on the pilot program that 
includes the following:
        (1) For the period since the commencement of the pilot 
    program--
            (A) the number of courses held under the pilot program;
            (B) the locations at which such courses were held; and
            (C) for each location identified in subparagraph (B)--
                (i) the number of female members by military department 
            (with respect to Department of the Navy, separately for the 
            Navy and Marine Corps) who participated in the pilot 
            program; and
                (ii) the number of seats available under the pilot 
            program.
        (2) Data relating to--
            (A) satisfaction with courses held under the pilot program;
            (B) improved awareness of health care services administered 
        by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; and
            (C) any other available statistics regarding the pilot 
        program.
        (3) A discussion of regulatory, legal, or resource barriers 
    to--
            (A) making the pilot program permanent to enable access by 
        a greater number of female members at locations throughout the 
        United States;
            (B) offering the pilot program online for female members 
        who are unable to attend courses held under the pilot program 
        in person; and
            (C) providing for automatic enrollment of participants in 
        the pilot program in the patient enrollment system of the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs established and operated under 
        section 1705 of title 38, United States Code.
    SEC. 739. NATIONAL GUARD SUICIDE PREVENTION PILOT PROGRAM.
    (a) Pilot Program Authorized.--The Chief of the National Guard 
Bureau may carry out a pilot program to expand suicide prevention and 
intervention efforts at the community level through the use of a mobile 
application that provides the capability for a member of the National 
Guard to receive prompt support, including access to a behavioral 
health professional, on a smartphone, tablet computer, or other 
handheld mobile device.
    (b) Elements.--The pilot program shall include, subject to such 
conditions as the Secretary may prescribe--
        (1) the use by members of the National Guard of an existing 
    mobile application that provides the capability described in 
    subsection (a); or
        (2) the development and use of a new mobile application that 
    provides such capability.
    (c) Eligibility and Participation Requirements.--The Chief of the 
National Guard Bureau shall establish requirements with respect to 
eligibility and participation in the pilot program.
    (d) Assessment Prior to Pilot Program Commencement.--Prior to 
commencement of the pilot program, the Chief of the National Guard 
Bureau shall--
        (1) conduct an assessment of existing prevention and 
    intervention efforts of the National Guard in each State that 
    include the use of mobile applications that provide the capability 
    described in subsection (a) to determine best practices for 
    providing immediate and localized care through the use of such 
    mobile applications; and
        (2) determine the feasibility of expanding existing programs on 
    a national scale.
    (e) Responsibilities of Entities Participating in Pilot Program.--
Each entity that participates in the pilot program shall--
        (1) share best practices with other entities participating in 
    the program; and
        (2) annually assess outcomes with respect to members of the 
    National Guard.
    (f) Term.--The pilot program shall terminate on the date that is 
three years after the date on which the pilot program commenced.
    (g) Reports.--
        (1) Initial report.--If the Chief of the National Guard Bureau 
    commences the pilot program authorized under subsection (a), not 
    later than 180 days after the date of the commencement of such 
    program, the Chief shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services 
    of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report containing 
    a description of the pilot program and such other matters as the 
    Chief considers appropriate.
        (2) Final report.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        termination of the pilot program, the Chief of the National 
        Guard Bureau shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services 
        of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on such 
        pilot program.
            (B) Matters included.--The report under subparagraph (A) 
        shall include the following:
                (i) A description of the pilot program, including any 
            partnerships entered into by the Chief of the National 
            Guard Bureau under the program.
                (ii) An assessment of the effectiveness of the pilot 
            program.
                (iii) A description of costs associated with the 
            implementation of the pilot program.
                (iv) The estimated costs of making the pilot program 
            permanent.
                (v) A recommendation as to whether the pilot program 
            should be extended or made permanent.
                (vi) Such other recommendations for legislative or 
            administrative action as the Chief of the National Guard 
            Bureau considers appropriate.
    (h) State Defined.--In this section, the term ``State'' means each 
of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of 
Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, 
and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
    SEC. 740. PILOT PROGRAM ON CIVILIAN AND MILITARY PARTNERSHIPS TO 
      ENHANCE INTEROPERABILITY AND MEDICAL SURGE CAPABILITY AND 
      CAPACITY OF NATIONAL DISASTER MEDICAL SYSTEM.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may carry out a pilot 
program to establish partnerships with public, private, and nonprofit 
health care organizations, institutions, and entities in collaboration 
with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Secretary 
of Transportation to enhance the interoperability and medical surge 
capability and capacity of the National Disaster Medical System under 
section 2812 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300hh-11) in 
the vicinity of major aeromedical and other transport hubs and 
logistics centers of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Duration.--The Secretary of Defense may carry out the pilot 
program under subsection (a) for a period of not more than five years.
    (c) Locations.--The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program 
under subsection (a) at not fewer than five aeromedical or other 
transport hub regions or logistics centers in the United States.
    (d) Requirements.--In establishing partnerships under the pilot 
program under subsection (a), the Secretary, in collaboration with the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Secretary of 
Transportation, shall establish requirements under such partnerships 
for staffing, specialized training, medical logistics, telemedicine, 
patient regulating, movement, situational status reporting, tracking, 
and surveillance.
    (e) Evaluation Metrics.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish 
metrics to evaluate the effectiveness of the pilot program under 
subsection (a).
    (f) Reports.--
        (1) Initial report.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        commencement of the pilot program under subsection (a), the 
        Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of 
        the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the 
        pilot program.
            (B) Elements.--The report required by subparagraph (A) 
        shall include the following:
                (i) A description of the pilot program.
                (ii) The requirements established under subsection (d).
                (iii) The evaluation metrics established under 
            subsection (e).
                (iv) Such other matters relating to the pilot program 
            as the Secretary considers appropriate.
        (2) Final report.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after completion 
        of the pilot program under subsection (a), the Secretary shall 
        submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
        the House of Representatives a report on the pilot program.
            (B) Elements.--The report required by subparagraph (A) 
        shall include the following:
                (i) A description of the pilot program, including the 
            partnerships established under the pilot program as 
            described in subsection (a).
                (ii) An assessment of the effectiveness of the pilot 
            program.
                (iii) An assessment of the cost of the pilot program 
            and an estimate of the cost of making the pilot program a 
            permanent part of the budget of the Department of Defense.
                (iv) Such recommendations for legislative or 
            administrative action as the Secretary considers 
            appropriate in light of the pilot program, including 
            recommendations for extending or making permanent the 
            authority for the pilot program.
    SEC. 741. REPORTS ON SUICIDE AMONG MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND 
      SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
      DEFENSE.
    (a) Department of Defense Reports on Suicide Among Members of the 
Armed Forces.--
        (1) Reports required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter through January 
    31, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees 
    on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate a 
    report on suicide among members of the Armed Forces during the year 
    preceding the date of the report.
        (2) Matters included.--Each report under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following with respect to the year covered by the 
    report:
            (A) The number of suicides, attempted suicides, and known 
        cases of suicidal ideation involving a member of the Armed 
        Forces, including the reserve components thereof, listed by 
        Armed Force.
            (B) The number of suicides, attempted suicides, or known 
        cases of suicidal ideation identified under subparagraph (A) 
        that occurred during each of the following periods:
                (i) The first 180 days of the member serving in the 
            Armed Forces.
                (ii) The period in which the member is deployed in 
            support of a contingency operation.
            (C) With respect to the number of suicides, attempted 
        suicides, or known cases of suicidal ideation identified under 
        subparagraph (B)(i), the initial recruit training location of 
        the member.
            (D) The number of suicides involving a dependent of a 
        member.
            (E) A description of any research collaborations and data 
        sharing by the Department of Defense with the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs, other departments or agencies of the Federal 
        Government, academic institutions, or nongovernmental 
        organizations.
            (F) Identification of a research agenda for the Department 
        of Defense to improve the evidence base on effective suicide 
        prevention treatment and risk communication.
            (G) The availability and usage of the assistance of 
        chaplains, houses of worship, and other spiritual resources for 
        members of the Armed Forces who identify as religiously 
        affiliated and have attempted suicide, have experienced 
        suicidal ideation, or are at risk of suicide, and metrics on 
        the impact these resources have in assisting religiously-
        affiliated members who have access to and utilize them compared 
        to religiously-affiliated members who do not.
            (H) A description of the effectiveness of the policies 
        developed pursuant to section 567 of the Carl Levin and Howard 
        P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 10 U.S.C. 1071 note) and 
        section 582 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 10 U.S.C. 1071 note), 
        including with respect to--
                (i) metrics identifying effective treatment modalities 
            for members of the Armed Forces who are at risk for suicide 
            (including any clinical interventions involving early 
            identification and treatment of such members);
                (ii) metrics for the rate of integration of mental 
            health screenings and suicide risk and prevention for 
            members during the delivery of primary care for such 
            members;
                (iii) metrics relating to the effectiveness of suicide 
            prevention and resilience programs and preventative 
            behavioral health programs of the Department of Defense 
            (including those of the military departments and the Armed 
            Forces); and
                (iv) metrics evaluating the training standards for 
            behavioral health care providers to ensure that such 
            providers have received training on clinical best practices 
            and evidence-based treatments.
    (b) GAO Report on Suicide Prevention Programs and Activities.--
        (1) Report required.--Not later than 240 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United 
    States shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
    Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the programs 
    and activities of the Department of Defense and the Armed Forces 
    for the prevention of suicide among members of the Armed Forces 
    (including the reserve components) and their families.
        (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include the 
    following:
            (A) A description of the current programs and activities of 
        the Department of Defense and the Armed Forces for the 
        prevention of suicide among members of the Armed Forces and 
        their families.
            (B) An assessment whether the programs and activities 
        described pursuant to subparagraph (A)--
                (i) are evidence-based and incorporate best practices 
            identified in peer-reviewed medical literature;
                (ii) are appropriately resourced; and
                (iii) deliver outcomes that are appropriate relative to 
            peer activities and programs (including those undertaken in 
            the civilian community and in military forces of other 
            countries).
            (C) A description and assessment of any impediments to the 
        effectiveness of such programs and activities.
            (D) Such recommendations as the Comptroller General 
        considers appropriate for improvements to such programs and 
        activities.
            (E) Such recommendations as the Comptroller General 
        considers appropriate for additional programs and activities 
        for the prevention of suicide among members of the Armed Forces 
        and their families.
    SEC. 742. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS FOR LONGITUDINAL MEDICAL 
      STUDY ON BLAST PRESSURE EXPOSURE OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES 
      AND COLLECTION OF EXPOSURE INFORMATION.
    (a) Modification of Study.--Section 734 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 
1444) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)--
            (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (B) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(4) assess the feasibility and advisability of--
            ``(A) uploading the data gathered from the study into the 
        Defense Occupational and Environmental Health Readiness System 
        - Industrial Hygiene (DOEHRS-IH) or similar system;
            ``(B) allowing personnel of the Department of Defense and 
        the Department of Veterans Affairs to have access to such 
        system; and
            ``(C) ensuring such data is interoperable and can be 
        uploaded into the MHS Genesis electronic health record or 
        successor system of the Department of Defense.''; and
        (2) in subsection (c)--
            (A) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
            (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
        paragraph (2):
        ``(2) Annual status report.--Not later than January 1 of each 
    year during the period beginning on the date of the enactment of 
    the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 and 
    ending on the completion of the study under subsection (a), the 
    Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
    Senate and the House of Representatives a status report on the 
    study.''.
    (b) Collection of Exposure Information.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall collect blast exposure information with respect to a member of 
the Armed Forces in a manner--
        (1) consistent with blast exposure measurement training 
    guidance of the Department of Defense, including any guidance 
    developed pursuant to--
            (A) the longitudinal medical study on blast pressure 
        exposure required by section 734 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 
        Stat. 1444); and
            (B) the review of guidance on blast exposure during 
        training required by section 253 of the John S. McCain National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-
        232; 10 U.S.C. 2001 note prec.);
        (2) compatible with training and operational objectives of the 
    Department; and
        (3) that is automated, to the extent practicable, to minimize 
    the reporting burden of unit commanders.
    SEC. 743. STUDY AND PLAN ON THE USE OF MILITARY-CIVILIAN INTEGRATED 
      HEALTH DELIVERY SYSTEMS.
    (a) Study.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a study on the 
use of local military-civilian integrated health delivery systems 
pursuant to section 706 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 10 U.S.C. 1096 note). The study 
shall examine the following:
        (1) Geographic locations where military medical treatment 
    facilities have existing contractual relationships with local 
    civilian health care networks, including Fort Drum, New York, Joint 
    Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst, New Jersey, Joint Base Lewis-McCord, 
    Washington, Fort Leonard Wood, Missouri, Elmendorf Air Force Base, 
    Alaska, Fort Sill, Oklahoma, Tripler Army Medical Center, Hawaii, 
    the National Capital Region, and similar locations.
        (2) Health care activities that promote value-based care, 
    measurable health outcomes, patient safety, timeliness of 
    referrals, and transparent communication with covered 
    beneficiaries.
        (3) Locations where health care providers of the Department of 
    Defense may be able to attain critical wartime readiness skills in 
    a local integrated military-civilian integrated health delivery 
    system.
        (4) The cost of providing care under an integrated military-
    civilian integrated health delivery system as compared to health 
    care provided by a managed care support contractor.
    (b) Plan.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop a plan for the 
further development of the use of local military-civilian integrated 
health delivery systems by the Department of Defense.
    (c) Submission.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate--
        (1) a report on the results of the study under subsection (a); 
    and
        (2) the plan developed under subsection (b).
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``covered beneficiaries'' has the meaning given 
    that term in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
        (2) The term ``National Capital Region'' has the meaning given 
    that term in section 2674 of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 744. STUDY ON CASE MANAGEMENT IN THE MILITARY HEALTH SYSTEM.
    (a) Study.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a study on the 
effectiveness of case management practices in the military health 
system. The study shall include the following:
        (1) A standardized definition of case management.
        (2) An evaluation of case management practices provided by the 
    military departments before and during the transition of the 
    administration of military medical treatment facilities to the 
    Defense Health Agency pursuant to section 1073c of title 10, United 
    States Code.
        (3) A discussion of the metrics used in determining the 
    effectiveness and cost of case management.
        (4) An evaluation of the case management and outreach provided 
    by the managed care support contractors supporting the Defense 
    Health Agency, including with respect to--
            (A) the intervals at which patients are contacted;
            (B) the role of the case manager in coordination;
            (C) the approximate number of patients managed by a case 
        manager; and
            (D) any other best practices relating to case management 
        that would improve the experience of care across the military 
        health system.
        (5) A review of case management best practices in the private 
    sector, including with respect to--
            (A) the intervals at which patients should be contacted;
            (B) the role of the case manager in coordination;
            (C) the approximate number of patients managed by a case 
        manager; and
            (D) any other best practices relating to case management 
        that would improve the experience of care across the military 
        health system.
        (6) The results of discussions with covered beneficiaries (as 
    defined in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code) at not 
    less than four public forums held in different geographic areas, 
    relating to the satisfaction of such covered beneficiaries with 
    case management and outreach provided by the Defense Health Agency 
    and the military departments in military medical treatment 
    facilities.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate a report on the results of the study under subsection (a).
    SEC. 745. REPORT ON GLOBAL HEALTH SECURITY STRATEGY AND THE 
      NATIONAL BIODEFENSE SECURITY.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date on which the 
Comptroller General of the United States publishes a review of the 
National Biodefense Strategy, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
the appropriate congressional committees a report on the implementation 
of the Global Health Security Strategy and the National Biodefense 
Strategy.
    (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall, at a 
minimum--
        (1) designate the individual and offices responsible for 
    overseeing the implementation of each strategy referred to in 
    subsection (a) within the Department of Defense;
        (2) detail actions that the Department is taking to support 
    implementation of the Global Health Security Agenda;
        (3) detail actions taken to coordinate the efforts of the 
    Department with the other agencies responsible for the Global 
    Health Security Strategy and National Biodefense Strategy; and
        (4) with respect to the review of the National Biodefense 
    Strategy conducted by the Comptroller General--
            (A) detail the recommendations in the review that the 
        Secretary plans on or is currently implementing;
            (B) specify the official implementing such recommendations 
        and the actions the official is taking to implement the 
        recommendations;
            (C) specify the recommendations in the review that the 
        Secretary has determined not to implement; and
            (D) explain the rationale of the Secretary with respect to 
        not implementing such recommendations.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees;
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Energy 
    and Commerce, and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House 
    of Representatives; and
        (3) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
    Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, and the Committee on 
    Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
    SEC. 746. STUDY ON ESTABLISHMENT OF WOUNDED WARRIOR SERVICE DOG 
      PROGRAM.
    (a) Study.--Not later than one year after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall conduct a study on the 
feasibility of establishing a wounded warrior service dog program.
    (b) Elements.--The study under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
        (1) An assessment of the need and feasibility of establishing a 
    wounded warrior service dog program.
        (2) With respect to a nonprofit organization seeking a grant 
    under a wounded warrior service dog program, an assessment of the 
    feasibility of requiring that the organization--
            (A) specify the training requirements for covered members;
            (B) detail the training of dogs that will serve as 
        assistance dogs;
            (C) establish a database--
                (i) to track whether a dog has prior experience as a 
            military working dog, service dog, or assistance dog; and
                (ii) that contains a designation for each dog with 
            prior experience as a military working dog;
            (D) describe the aftercare services that the organization 
        will provide to assistance dogs and covered members; and
            (E) possess the appropriate accreditation standards for 
        assistance dogs, as the Secretary determines appropriate.
        (3) A list of locations at which the greatest number of covered 
    members are likely to participate in a wounded warrior service dog 
    program.
        (4) An estimate of the costs required to create a wounded 
    warrior service dog program.
        (5) A list of peer reviewed articles and other appropriate 
    studies that examine the clinical effectiveness of assistance dogs 
    with respect to the treatment of patients with disabilities.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Assistance dog.--
            (A) In general.--The term ``assistance dog'' means a dog 
        specifically trained to perform physical tasks to mitigate the 
        effects of a disability described in subparagraph (B), except 
        that the term does not include a dog specifically trained for 
        comfort or personal defense.
            (B) Disability described.--A disability described in this 
        subparagraph is any of the following:
                (i) Blindness or visual impairment.
                (ii) Loss of limb, paralysis, or other significant 
            mobility issues.
                (iii) Loss of hearing.
                (iv) Traumatic brain injury.
                (v) Post-traumatic stress disorder.
                (vi) Any other disability that the Secretary of Defense 
            considers appropriate.
        (2) Covered member.--The term ``covered member'' means a member 
    of the Armed Forces who is--
            (A) receiving medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy 
        under chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code;
            (B) in medical hold or medical holdover status; or
            (C) covered under section 1202 or 1205 of title 10, United 
        States Code.
        (3) Wounded warrior service dog program.--The term ``wounded 
    warrior service dog program'' means a pilot program under which the 
    Secretary of Defense awards competitive grants to non-profit 
    organizations that would assist such organizations in the planning, 
    designing, establishing, or operating (or any combination thereof) 
    of programs to provide assistance dogs to covered members.
    SEC. 747. GAO REPORT ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE QUALITY ASSURANCE 
      PROGRAM AND IMPACTS OF MEDICAL MALPRACTICE ACTIONS.
    Not later than January 1, 2021, the Comptroller General of the 
United States shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
Senate and the House of Representatives a report containing the 
following:
        (1) An assessment of the effectiveness of the quality assurance 
    program of the Department of Defense in querying and monitoring the 
    National Practitioner Data Bank established pursuant to the Health 
    Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11101 et seq.) with 
    respect to--
            (A) recruitment and retention of military service medical 
        providers;
            (B) hiring or contracting of civilian medical providers in 
        military medical treatment facilities;
            (C) recording of adverse privileging and credentialing 
        actions of such military service medical providers and civilian 
        medical providers; and
            (D) any other matters relating to ensuring the highest 
        quality of care is provided throughout the military health 
        system.
        (2) An analysis that includes--
            (A) with respect to military health system patients, a 
        comparison of outcomes for such patients who may bring an 
        action against the Federal Government for negligence or 
        malpractice and outcomes for such patients who may not bring 
        such an action, based on an examination of all relevant data 
        relating to clinical outcome measures and clinical quality 
        management process actions; and
            (B) a comparison of--
                (i) the elements and average amounts of death and 
            disability compensation that apply regardless of the 
            underlying cause of the death or disability; and
                (ii) the elements and average amounts of settlements 
            that result from medical malpractice litigation against the 
            Federal Government.
    SEC. 748. REPORTS ON MILLENNIUM COHORT STUDY RELATING TO WOMEN 
      MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Annual Reports Required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter through 
January 31, 2022, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on findings of the Millennium Cohort Study 
relating to the gynecological and perinatal health of women members of 
the Armed Forces.
    (b) Matters Included.--Each report under subsection (a) shall 
include, at a minimum--
        (1) a summary of general findings of the Millennium Cohort 
    Study pertaining to gynecological and perinatal health, including 
    diseases, disorders, and conditions that affect the functioning of 
    reproductive systems, maternal mortality and severe maternal 
    morbidity, birth defects, developmental disorders, low birth 
    weight, preterm birth, reduced fertility, menstrual disorders, and 
    other health concerns; and
        (2) identification of--
            (A) all research projects that have concluded during the 
        year covered by the report and the outcomes of such projects;
            (B) areas in which the Millennium Cohort Study can increase 
        efforts to capture data and produce studies in the field of 
        gynecological and perinatal health of women members of the 
        Armed Forces; and
            (C) activities underway to achieve such efforts.
    (c) Millennium Cohort Study Defined.--In this section, the term 
``Millennium Cohort Study'' means the longitudinal study authorized 
under section 743 of the Strom Thurmond National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (Public Law 105-261; 112 Stat. 2074) to 
evaluate data on the health conditions of members of the Armed Forces 
upon the return of the members from deployment.
    SEC. 749. STUDY ON EFFECTS OF SLEEP DEPRIVATION ON READINESS OF 
      MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Study.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a study on the 
effects of sleep deprivation on the readiness of members of the Armed 
Forces.
    (b) Elements.--The study under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
        (1) A standardized definition of sleep deprivation.
        (2) An assessment of the prevalence of sleep deprivation on 
    members of the Armed Forces related to circadian rhythm 
    disturbances from crossing multiple time zones, mission related 
    maladaptive sleep practices, uncomfortable or otherwise 
    inhospitable sleeping environments, and the use of stimulants and 
    hypnotics to support operational tempo.
        (3) An assessment of whether there may be a relationship 
    between sleep deprivation and medical conditions such as traumatic 
    brain injury, post-traumatic stress disorder, and depression.
        (4) Recommendations on efforts to mitigate sleep deprivation 
    described in paragraphs (2) and (3).
    (c) Report.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on the results of the study under subsection 
(a).
    SEC. 750. STUDY AND REPORT ON TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY MITIGATION 
      EFFORTS.
    (a) Study.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a meta-analysis 
of evidence-based traumatic brain injury mitigation efforts by the 
Secretary and related Federal agency partners, and efforts discussed in 
academic literature, that have demonstrated the best clinical 
effectiveness in the treatment of members of the Armed Forces for 
traumatic brain injury.
    (b) Roadmap.--The Secretary shall develop and include in the study 
under subsection (a) a roadmap for implementation across the military 
health system of measures that address, with respect to the treatment 
of members for traumatic brain injury--
        (1) the process for receiving such treatment;
        (2) patient outcomes;
        (3) cost;
        (4) patient and command satisfaction with such treatment; and
        (5) structured documentation to monitor system-wide 
    implementation of the measures developed pursuant to paragraphs (1) 
    through (4).
    (c) Report.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on the results of the study under subsection 
(a).

  TITLE VIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

  TITLE VIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                 MATTERS

              Subtitle A--Acquisition Policy and Management

Sec. 800. Authority for continuous integration and delivery of software 
          applications and upgrades to embedded systems.
Sec. 801. Pilot program on intellectual property evaluation for 
          acquisition programs.
Sec. 802. Pilot program to use alpha contracting teams for complex 
          requirements.
Sec. 803. Failure to provide other than certified cost or pricing data 
          upon request.
Sec. 804. Comptroller General report on price reasonableness.
Sec. 805. Limitation on transfer of funds related to cost overruns and 
          cost underruns.
Sec. 806. Standardizing data collection and reporting on use of source 
          selection procedures by Federal agencies.
Sec. 807. Department of Defense use of fixed-price contracts.
Sec. 808. Repeal of continuation of data rights during challenges.
Sec. 809. Repeal of authority to waive acquisition laws to acquire vital 
          national security capabilities.
Sec. 810. Repeal of the Defense Cost Accounting Standards Board.

 Subtitle B--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                             and Limitations

Sec. 815. Modification of Director of Operational Test and Evaluation 
          report.
Sec. 816. Modification of written approval requirement for task and 
          delivery order single contract awards.
Sec. 817. Responsibility for data analysis and requirements validation 
          for services contracts.
Sec. 818. Documentation of market research related to commercial item 
          determinations.
Sec. 819. Availability of data on the use of other transaction authority 
          and report on the use of authority to carry out prototype 
          projects.
Sec. 820. Notification of Navy procurement production disruptions.
Sec. 821. Modification to acquisition authority of the Commander of the 
          United States Cyber Command.
Sec. 822. Extension of Never Contract With the Enemy.
Sec. 823. Modification of justification and approval requirement for 
          certain Department of Defense contracts.
Sec. 824. Extension of sunset relating to Federal Data Center 
          Consolidation Initiative.
Sec. 825. Pilot program to accelerate contracting and pricing processes.
Sec. 826. Uniformity in application of micro-purchase threshold to 
          certain task or delivery orders.
Sec. 827. Requirement for cost estimates on models of commercial e-
          commerce portal program.

  Subtitle C--Provisions Relating to Major Defense Acquisition Programs

Sec. 830. Modification of requirements for reporting to Congress on 
          certain acquisition programs.
Sec. 831. Pilot program to streamline decision-making processes for 
          weapon systems.
Sec. 832. Analysis of alternatives pursuant to materiel development 
          decisions.
Sec. 833. Naval vessel certification required before Milestone B 
          approval.

        Subtitle D--Provisions Relating to the Acquisition System

Sec. 835. Extramural acquisition innovation and research activities.
Sec. 836. Report on realignment of the defense acquisition system to 
          implement acquisition reforms.
Sec. 837. Report and limitation on the availability of funds relating to 
          the ``middle tier'' of acquisition programs.
Sec. 838. Report on intellectual property policy and the cadre of 
          intellectual property experts.
Sec. 839. Guidance and reports relating to covered defense business 
          systems.
Sec. 840. Implementation guidance for use of a modular open system 
          approach.
Sec. 841. Limitation on availability of funds for the Office of the 
          Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense.

                   Subtitle E--Industrial Base Matters

Sec. 845. Modernization of acquisition processes to ensure integrity of 
          industrial base.
Sec. 846. Report requirements for the national technology and industrial 
          base.
Sec. 847. Mitigating risks related to foreign ownership, control, or 
          influence of Department of Defense contractors or 
          subcontractors.
Sec. 848. Prohibition on operation or procurement of foreign-made 
          unmanned aircraft systems.
Sec. 849. Modification of prohibition on acquisition of sensitive 
          materials from non-allied foreign nations.
Sec. 850. Acquisition and disposal of certain rare earth materials.
Sec. 851. Pilot program for development of technology-enhanced 
          capabilities with partnership intermediaries.
Sec. 852. Authorized official to carry out the procurement technical 
          assistance cooperative agreement program.
Sec. 853. Requirement that certain ship components be manufactured in 
          the national technology and industrial base.
Sec. 854. Addition of domestically produced stainless steel flatware and 
          dinnerware to the Berry Amendment.
Sec. 855. Application of miscellaneous technology base policies and 
          programs to the Columbia-class submarine program.
Sec. 856. Application of limitation on procurement of goods other than 
          United States goods to the FFG-Frigate Program.
Sec. 857. Sense of Congress regarding consideration of price in 
          procurement of the FFG(X) frigate.

        Subtitle F--Provisions Relating to Acquisition Workforce

Sec. 860. Establishment of Defense Civilian Training Corps.
Sec. 861. Defense acquisition workforce certification, education, and 
          career fields.
Sec. 862. Software development and software acquisition training and 
          management programs.
Sec. 863. Modification of temporary assignments of Department of Defense 
          employees to a private-sector organization.
Sec. 864. Incentives and consideration for qualified training programs.
Sec. 865. Use of qualified apprentices by military construction 
          contractors.

                   Subtitle G--Small Business Matters

Sec. 870. Requirements relating to credit for certain small business 
          concern subcontractors.
Sec. 871. Inclusion of best in class designations in annual report on 
          small business goals.
Sec. 872. Reauthorization and improvement of Department of Defense 
          Mentor-Protege Program.
Sec. 873. Accelerated payments applicable to contracts with certain 
          small business concerns under the Prompt Payment Act.
Sec. 874. Postaward explanations for unsuccessful offerors for certain 
          contracts.
Sec. 875. Small business contracting credit for subcontractors that are 
          Puerto Rico businesses or covered territory businesses.
Sec. 876. Technical amendment regarding treatment of certain surviving 
          spouses under the definition of small business concern owned 
          and controlled by service-disabled veterans.
Sec. 877. Extension of loan assistance and deferral eligibility to 
          reservists and members of the National Guard beyond periods of 
          military conflict.
Sec. 878. Modification to the Defense Research and Development Rapid 
          Innovation Program.
Sec. 879. Alignment of the Department of Defense Small Business 
          Innovation Research Program and Small Business Technology 
          Transfer Program with the National Defense Science and 
          Technology Strategy.
Sec. 880. Assistance for small business concerns participating in the 
          SBIR and STTR programs.
Sec. 881. Cybersecurity technical assistance for SBIR and STTR programs.
Sec. 882. Funding for defense research activities of small business 
          concerns.
Sec. 883. Modifications to budget display requirements for the 
          Department of Defense Small Business Innovation Research 
          Program and Small Business Technology Transfer Program.
Sec. 884. Pilot program for domestic investment under the SBIR program.

                        Subtitle H--Other Matters

Sec. 885. Review of guidance to contractors on nondiscrimination on the 
          basis of sex.
Sec. 886. Comptroller General report on contractor violations of certain 
          labor laws.
Sec. 887. Comptroller General report on contingency contracting.
Sec. 888. Policies and procedures for contractors to report gross 
          violations of internationally recognized human rights.
Sec. 889. Comptroller General report on oversight of contractors 
          providing private security functions.
Sec. 890. Prohibition on contracting with persons that have business 
          operations with the Maduro regime.
Sec. 891. Report on the Combating Trafficking in Persons initiative.
Sec. 892. Improved management of information technology and cyberspace 
          investments.
Sec. 893. Modification to requirements for purchase of commercial 
          leasing services pursuant to multiple award contracts.

             Subtitle A--Acquisition Policy and Management

    SEC. 800. AUTHORITY FOR CONTINUOUS INTEGRATION AND DELIVERY OF 
      SOFTWARE APPLICATIONS AND UPGRADES TO EMBEDDED SYSTEMS.
    (a) Software Acquisition and Development Pathways.--The Secretary 
of Defense shall establish pathways as described under subsection (b) 
to provide for the efficient and effective acquisition, development, 
integration, and timely delivery of secure software. Such a pathway 
shall include the following:
        (1) Use of proven technologies and solutions.--A pathway 
    established under this section shall provide for the use of proven 
    technologies and solutions to continuously engineer and deliver 
    capabilities in software.
        (2) Use of authority.--In using the authority under this 
    section, the Secretary shall consider how such use will--
            (A) initiate the engineering of new software capabilities 
        quickly;
            (B) demonstrate the viability and effectiveness of such 
        capabilities for operational use not later than one year after 
        the date on which funds are first obligated to acquire or 
        develop software; and
            (C) allow for the continuous updating and delivery of new 
        capabilities not less frequently than annually to iteratively 
        meet a requirement.
        (3) Treatment not as major defense acquisition program.--
    Software acquired or developed using the authority under this 
    section shall not be treated as a major defense acquisition program 
    for purposes of section 2430 of title 10, United States Code, or 
    Department of Defense Directive 5000.01 without the specific 
    direction of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
    Sustainment or a Senior Acquisition Executive.
        (4) Risk-based approach.--The Secretary of Defense shall use a 
    risk-based approach for the consideration of innovative 
    technologies and new capabilities for software to be acquired or 
    developed under this authority to meet needs communicated by the 
    Joint Chiefs of Staff and the combatant commanders.
    (b) Pathways.--The Secretary of Defense may establish as many 
pathways as the Secretary determines appropriate and shall establish 
the following pathways:
        (1) Applications.--The applications software acquisition 
    pathway shall provide for the use of rapid development and 
    implementation of applications and other software or software 
    improvements operated by the Department of Defense, which may 
    include applications running on commercial commodity hardware 
    (including modified hardware) and commercially available cloud 
    computing platforms.
        (2) Embedded systems.--The embedded systems software 
    acquisition pathway shall provide for the rapid development and 
    insertion of upgrades and improvements for software embedded in 
    weapon systems and other military-unique hardware systems.
    (c) Expedited Process.--
        (1) In general.--A pathway established under subsection (a) 
    shall provide for--
            (A) a streamlined and coordinated requirements, budget, and 
        acquisition process to support rapid fielding of software 
        applications and of software upgrades to embedded systems for 
        operational use in a period of not more than one year from the 
        time that the process is initiated;
            (B) the collection of data on software fielded; and
            (C) continuous engagement with the users of software to 
        support engineering activities, and to support delivery of 
        software for operational use in periods of not more than one 
        year.
        (2) Expedited software requirements process.--
            (A) Inapplicability of joint capabilities integration and 
        development system (jcids) manual.--Software acquisition or 
        development conducted under the authority of this section shall 
        not be subject to the Joint Capabilities Integration and 
        Development System Manual, except pursuant to a modified 
        process specifically provided for the acquisition or 
        development of software by the Vice Chairman of the Joint 
        Chiefs of Staff, in consultation with Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment and each service 
        acquisition executive (as defined in section 101(a)(10) of 
        title 10, United States Code).
            (B) Inapplicability of defense acquisition system 
        directive.--Software acquisition or development conducted under 
        the authority of this section shall not be subject to 
        Department of Defense Directive 5000.01, except when 
        specifically provided for the acquisition or development of 
        software by the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment, in consultation with the Vice Chairman of the 
        Joint Chiefs of Staff and each service acquisition executive.
    (d) Elements.--In implementing a pathway established under the 
authority of this section, the Secretary shall tailor requirements 
relating to--
        (1) iterative development of requirements for software to be 
    acquired or developed under the authority of this section through 
    engagement with the user community and through the use of 
    operational user feedback, in order to continuously define and 
    update priorities for such requirements;
        (2) early identification of the warfighter or user need, 
    including the rationale for how software capabilities will support 
    increased lethality and efficiency, and identification of a 
    relevant user community;
        (3) initial contract requirements and format, including the use 
    of summary-level lists of problems and shortcomings in existing 
    software and desired features or capabilities of new or upgraded 
    software;
        (4) continuous refinement and prioritization of contract 
    requirements through use of evolutionary processes, informed by 
    continuous engagement with operational users throughout the 
    development and implementation period;
        (5) continuous consideration of issues related to lifecycle 
    costs, technical data rights, and systems interoperability;
        (6) planning for support of software capabilities in cases 
    where the software developer may stop supporting the software;
        (7) rapid contracting procedures, including expedited 
    timeframes for making awards, selecting contract types, defining 
    teaming arrangements, and defining options;
        (8) program execution processes, including supporting 
    development and test infrastructure, automation and tools, digital 
    engineering, data collection and sharing with Department of Defense 
    oversight organizations and with Congress, the role of 
    developmental and operational testing activities, key decision 
    making and oversight events, and supporting processes and 
    activities (such as independent costing activity, operational 
    demonstration, and performance metrics);
        (9) assurances that cybersecurity metrics of the software to be 
    acquired or developed, such as metrics relating to the density of 
    vulnerabilities within the code of such software, the time from 
    vulnerability identification to patch availability, the existence 
    of common weaknesses within such code, and other cybersecurity 
    metrics based on widely-recognized standards and industry best 
    practices, are generated and made available to the Department of 
    Defense and the congressional defense committees;
        (10) administrative procedures, including procedures related to 
    who may initiate and approve an acquisition under this authority, 
    the roles and responsibilities of the implementing project or 
    product teams and supporting activities, team selection and 
    staffing process, governance and oversight roles and 
    responsibilities, and appropriate independent technology 
    assessments, testing, and cost estimation (including relevant 
    thresholds or designation criteria);
        (11) mechanisms and waivers designed to ensure flexibility in 
    the implementation of a pathway under this section, including the 
    use of other transaction authority, broad agency announcements, and 
    other procedures; and
        (12) mechanisms the Secretary will use for appropriate 
    reporting to Congress on the use of this authority, including 
    notice of initiation of the use of a pathway and data regarding 
    individual programs or acquisition activities, how acquisition 
    activities are reflected in budget justification materials or 
    requests to reprogram appropriated funds, and compliance with other 
    reporting requirements.
    (e) Guidance Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall issue initial 
    guidance to implement the requirements of this section.
        (2) Limitation.--If the Secretary of Defense has not issued 
    final guidance to implement the requirements of this section before 
    October 1, 2021, the Secretary may not use the authority under this 
    section--
            (A) to establish a new pathway to acquire or develop 
        software; or
            (B) to continue activities to acquire or develop software 
        using a pathway established under initial guidance described in 
        paragraph (1).
    (f) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than October 15, 2020, the Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, in 
    consultation with the secretaries of the military departments and 
    other appropriate officials, shall report on the use of the 
    authority under this section using the initial guidance issued 
    under subsection (d).
        (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following elements:
            (A) The final guidance required by subsection (d)(2), 
        including a description of the treatment of use of the 
        authority that was initiated before such final guidance was 
        issued.
            (B) A summary of how the authority under this section has 
        been used, including a list of the cost estimate, schedule for 
        development, testing and delivery, and key management risks for 
        each initiative conducted pursuant to such authority.
            (C) Accomplishments from and challenges to using the 
        authority under this section, including organizational, 
        cultural, talent, infrastructure, testing, and training 
        considerations.
            (D) Recommendations for legislative changes to the 
        authority under this section.
            (E) Recommendations for regulatory changes to the authority 
        under this section to promote effective development and 
        deployment of software acquired or developed under this 
        section.
    SEC. 801. PILOT PROGRAM ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY EVALUATION FOR 
      ACQUISITION PROGRAMS.
    (a) Pilot Program.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of 
the military departments may jointly carry out a pilot program to 
assess mechanisms to evaluate intellectual property (such as technical 
data deliverables and associated license rights), including 
commercially available intellectual property valuation analysis and 
techniques, in acquisition programs for which each such Secretary is 
responsible to better understand the benefits associated with these 
mechanisms on--
        (1) the development of cost-effective intellectual property 
    strategies;
        (2) the assessment and management of the value and acquisition 
    costs of intellectual property during acquisition and sustainment 
    activities (including source selection evaluation factors) 
    throughout the acquisition lifecycle for any acquisition program 
    selected by such Secretary; and
        (3) the use of a commercial product (as defined in section 103 
    of title 41, United States Code, as in effect on January 1, 2020), 
    commercial service (as defined in section 103a of title 41, United 
    States Code, as in effect on January 1, 2020), or nondevelopmental 
    item (as defined in section 110 of title 41, United States Code) as 
    an alternative to a product or service to be specifically developed 
    for a selected acquisition program, including evaluation of the 
    benefits of reduced risk regarding cost, schedule, and performance 
    associated with commercial products, commercial services, and 
    nondevelopmental items.
    (b) Activities.--Activities carried out under the pilot program may 
include the following:
        (1) Establishment of a team of Department of Defense and 
    private sector subject matter experts (which may include the cadre 
    of intellectual property experts established under section 2322(b) 
    of title 10, United States Code) to--
            (A) recommend acquisition programs to be selected for the 
        pilot program established under subsection (a);
            (B) recommend criteria for the consideration of types of 
        commercial products, commercial services, or nondevelopmental 
        items that can used as an alternative to a product or service 
        to be specifically developed for a selected acquisition 
        program; or
            (C) identify, to the maximum extent practicable at each 
        milestone established for each selected acquisition program, 
        intellectual property evaluation techniques to obtain 
        quantitative and qualitative analysis of intellectual property 
        during the procurement, production and deployment, and 
        operations and support phases for the each selected acquisition 
        program.
        (2) Assessment of commercial valuation techniques for 
    intellectual property for use by the Department of Defense.
        (3) Assessment of the feasibility of agency-level oversight to 
    standardize intellectual property evaluation practices and 
    procedures.
        (4) Assessment of contracting mechanisms to speed delivery of 
    intellectual property to the Armed Forces or reduce sustainment 
    costs.
        (5) Assessment of agency acquisition planning to ensure 
    procurement of appropriate intellectual property deliverables and 
    intellectual property rights necessary for Government-planned 
    sustainment activities.
        (6) Engagement with the private sector to--
            (A) support the development of strategies and program 
        requirements to aid in acquisition planning for intellectual 
        property;
            (B) support the development and improvement of intellectual 
        property strategies as part of life-cycle sustainment plans; 
        and
            (C) propose and implement alternative and innovative 
        methods of intellectual property valuation, prioritization, and 
        evaluation techniques for intellectual property.
        (7) Recommendations to the relevant program manager of an 
    acquisition program selected under subsection (a), including 
    evaluation techniques and contracting mechanisms for acquisition 
    and sustainment activities.
    (c) Report.--Not later than November 1, 2020, and annually 
thereafter through November 1, 2023, the Secretary of Defense, in 
coordination with the Secretaries concerned, shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a joint report on the pilot program 
conducted under this section. The report shall, at a minimum, include--
        (1) a description of the acquisition programs selected by the 
    Secretary concerned;
        (2) a description of the specific activities in subsection (c) 
    that were performed under each program;
        (3) an assessment of the effectiveness of the activities;
        (4) an assessment of improvements to acquisition or sustainment 
    activities related to the pilot program; and
        (5) an assessment of the results related to the pilot program, 
    including any cost savings and improvement to mission success 
    during the operations and support phase of the selected acquisition 
    program.
    SEC. 802. PILOT PROGRAM TO USE ALPHA CONTRACTING TEAMS FOR COMPLEX 
      REQUIREMENTS.
    (a) In General.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall select at least 
2, and up to 5, initiatives to participate in a pilot to use teams 
that, with the advice of expert third parties, focus on the development 
of complex contract technical requirements for services, with each team 
focusing on developing achievable technical requirements that are 
appropriately valued and identifying the most effective acquisition 
strategy to achieve those requirements.
    (2) The Secretary shall develop metrics for tracking progress of 
the program at improving quality and acquisition cycle time.
    (b) Development of Criteria and Initiatives.--(1) Not later than 
February 1, 2020, the Secretary of Defense shall establish the pilot 
program and notify the congressional defense committees of the criteria 
used to select initiatives and the metrics used to track progress.
    (2) Not later than May 1, 2020, the Secretary shall notify the 
congressional defense committees of the initiatives selected for the 
program.
    (3) Not later than December 1, 2020, the Secretary shall brief the 
congressional defense committees on the progress of the selected 
initiatives, including the progress of the initiatives at improving 
quality and acquisition cycle time according to the metrics developed 
under subsection (a)(2).
    SEC. 803. FAILURE TO PROVIDE OTHER THAN CERTIFIED COST OR PRICING 
      DATA UPON REQUEST.
    Section 2306a(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by adding at the end the following: 
    ``Contracting officers shall not determine the price of a contract 
    or subcontract to be fair and reasonable based solely on historical 
    prices paid by the Government.'';
        (2) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
        (3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
    paragraph:
        ``(2) Ineligibility for award.--(A) In the event the 
    contracting officer is unable to determine proposed prices are fair 
    and reasonable by any other means, an offeror who fails to make a 
    good faith effort to comply with a reasonable request to submit 
    data in accordance with paragraph (1) is ineligible for award 
    unless the head of the contracting activity, or the designee of the 
    head of contracting activity, determines that it is in the best 
    interest of the Government to make the award to that offeror, based 
    on consideration of pertinent factors, including the following:
            ``(i) The effort to obtain the data.
            ``(ii) Availability of other sources of supply of the item 
        or service.
            ``(iii) The urgency or criticality of the Government's need 
        for the item or service.
            ``(iv) Reasonableness of the price of the contract, 
        subcontract, or modification of the contract or subcontract 
        based on information available to the contracting officer.
            ``(v) Rationale or justification made by the offeror for 
        not providing the requested data.
            ``(vi) Risk to the Government if award is not made.
        ``(B)(i) Any new determination made by the head of the 
    contracting activity under subparagraph (A) shall be reported to 
    the Principal Director, Defense Pricing and Contracting on a 
    quarterly basis.
        ``(ii) The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
    Sustainment, or a designee, shall produce an annual report 
    identifying offerors that have denied multiple requests for 
    submission of uncertified cost or pricing data over the preceding 
    three-year period, but nevertheless received an award. The report 
    shall identify products or services offered by such offerors that 
    should undergo should-cost analysis. The Secretary of Defense may 
    include a notation on such offerors in the system used by the 
    Federal Government to monitor or record contractor past 
    performance. The Under Secretary shall assess the extent to which 
    these offerors are sole source providers within the defense 
    industrial base and shall develop strategies to incentivize new 
    entrants into the industrial base to increase the availability of 
    other sources of supply for the product or service.''.
    SEC. 804. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON PRICE REASONABLENESS.
    Not later than March 31, 2021, the Comptroller General of the 
United States shall submit to the congressional defense committees, the 
Committee on Oversight and Reform of the House of Representatives, and 
the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
Senate a report on the efforts of the Secretary of Defense to secure 
data relating to the price reasonableness of offers from offerors. The 
report shall include a review of--
        (1) the number of, and justification for, any waiver of 
    requirements for submission of certified cost or pricing data for 
    sole source contracts for spare parts issued during fiscal years 
    2015 through 2019 pursuant to section 2306a(b)(1)(C) of title 10, 
    United States Code;
        (2) the number of, and justification for, any exception to the 
    requirements for submission of certified cost or pricing data for 
    sole source contracts for spare parts provided during fiscal years 
    2015 through 2019 pursuant to section 2306a(b)(1)(B) of title 10, 
    United States Code;
        (3) the number of contracts awarded for which a request for 
    cost or pricing data, including data other than certified cost or 
    pricing data, to determine price reasonableness was denied by an 
    offeror at the time of award;
        (4) actions taken by the Secretary if an offeror refused to 
    provide requested data described in paragraph (2), including--
            (A) whether the contracting officer included a notation in 
        the system used by the Federal Government to monitor or record 
        contractor past performance regarding the refusal of an offeror 
        to provide such data;
            (B) any strategies developed by the Secretary to acquire 
        the good that was the subject of a contract for which the 
        offeror refused to provide such data in the future without the 
        need for such a waiver.
    SEC. 805. LIMITATION ON TRANSFER OF FUNDS RELATED TO COST OVERRUNS 
      AND COST UNDERRUNS.
    (a) In General.--Section 828(a) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 
2430 note) is amended by striking ``For each of fiscal years 2018 
through 2022'' and inserting ``For fiscal years 2018 and 2019''.
    (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 825 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 
1466; 10 U.S.C. 2430 note) is amended--
        (1) by repealing subsection (b); and
        (2) by striking ``(a) In General.--''.
    SEC. 806. STANDARDIZING DATA COLLECTION AND REPORTING ON USE OF 
      SOURCE SELECTION PROCEDURES BY FEDERAL AGENCIES.
    (a) Repeal of Government Accountability Office Reporting 
Requirements on Use of Lowest Price Technically Acceptable Source 
Selection Criteria.--
        (1) Department of defense.--Section 813 of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (10 U.S.C. 2305 note) is 
    amended by striking subsection (d).
        (2) Other agencies.--Section 880 of the John S. McCain National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 
    132 Stat. 1910; 41 U.S.C. 3701 note) is amended by striking 
    subsection (d) and redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (d).
    (b) Revision to the Federal Procurement Data System.--Not later 
than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Administrator of General Services, in coordination with the 
Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy, shall direct appropriate 
revisions to the Federal procurement data system established pursuant 
to section 1122(a)(4) of title 41, United States Code (or any successor 
system), to facilitate the collection of complete, timely, and reliable 
data on the source selection processes used by Federal agencies for the 
contract actions being reported in the system. The Administrator of 
General Services shall ensure that data are collected--
        (1) at a minimum, on the usage of the lowest price technically 
    acceptable contracting methods and best value contracting methods 
    process; and
        (2) on all applicable contracting actions, including task 
    orders or delivery orders issued under indefinite delivery-
    indefinite quantity contracts.
    SEC. 807. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE USE OF FIXED-PRICE CONTRACTS.
    (a) Department of Defense Review.--
        (1) In general.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition 
    and Sustainment shall review how the Department of Defense informs 
    decisions to use fixed-price contracts to support broader 
    acquisition objectives to ensure that such decisions are made 
    strategically and consistently. The review should include decisions 
    on the use of the various types of fixed price contracts, including 
    fixed-price incentive contracts.
        (2) Briefing.--Not later than February 1, 2020, the Under 
    Secretary shall brief the congressional defense committees on the 
    findings of the review required under paragraph (1).
    (b) Comptroller General Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than February 1, 2021, the 
    Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report on the Department of 
    Defense's use of fixed-price contracts, including different types 
    of fixed-price contracts.
        (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following elements:
            (A) A description of the extent to which fixed-price 
        contracts have been used over time and the conditions in which 
        they are used.
            (B) An assessment of the effects of the decisions to use 
        fixed-price contract types, such as any additional costs or 
        savings or efficiencies in contract administration.
            (C) An assessment of how decisions to use various types of 
        fixed-price contracts affects the contract closeout process.
    (c) Delayed Implementation of Regulations Requiring the Use of 
Fixed-Price Contracts for Foreign Military Sales.--The regulations 
prescribed pursuant to section 830(a) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 22 U.S.C. 
2762 note) shall not take effect until December 31, 2020. The 
regulations as so prescribed shall take into account the findings of 
the review conducted under subsection (a)(1).
    SEC. 808. REPEAL OF CONTINUATION OF DATA RIGHTS DURING CHALLENGES.
    (a) Repeal.--Section 866 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 
1901; 10 U.S.C. 2321) is repealed.
    (b) Restoration of Amended Provision.--Subsection (i) of section 
2321 of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(i) Rights and Liability Upon Final Disposition.--(1) If, upon 
final disposition, the contracting officer's challenge to the use or 
release restriction is sustained--
        ``(A) the restriction shall be cancelled; and
        ``(B) if the asserted restriction is found not to be 
    substantially justified, the contractor or subcontractor asserting 
    the restriction shall be liable to the United States for payment of 
    the cost to the United States of reviewing the asserted restriction 
    and the fees and other expenses (as defined in section 
    2412(d)(2)(A) of title 28) incurred by the United States in 
    challenging the asserted restriction, unless special circumstances 
    would make such payment unjust.
    ``(2) If, upon final disposition, the contracting officer's 
challenge to the use or release restriction is not sustained--
        ``(A) the United States shall continue to be bound by the 
    restriction; and
        ``(B) the United States shall be liable for payment to the 
    party asserting the restriction for fees and other expenses (as 
    defined in section 2412(d)(2)(A) of title 28) incurred by the party 
    asserting the restriction in defending the asserted restriction if 
    the challenge by the United States is found not to be made in good 
    faith.''.
    SEC. 809. REPEAL OF AUTHORITY TO WAIVE ACQUISITION LAWS TO ACQUIRE 
      VITAL NATIONAL SECURITY CAPABILITIES.
    Section 806 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is repealed.
    SEC. 810. REPEAL OF THE DEFENSE COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD.
    (a) Repeal.--Section 190 of title 10, United States Code, is 
repealed.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 7 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 190.

Subtitle B--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                            and Limitations

    SEC. 815. MODIFICATION OF DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONAL TEST AND 
      EVALUATION REPORT.
    Section 139(h) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``, through January 31, 
    2021'' and inserting ``, through January 31, 2025''; and
        (2) by amending paragraph (5) to read as follows:
    ``(5) The Director shall solicit comments from the Secretaries of 
the military departments on each report of the Director to Congress 
under this section and include any comments as an appendix to the 
Director's report. The Director shall determine the amount of time 
available for the Secretaries to comment on the draft report on a case 
by case basis, and consider the extent to which substantive discussions 
have already been held between the Director and the military 
department. The Director shall reserve the right to issue the report 
without comment from a military department if the department's comments 
are not received within the time provided, and shall indicate any such 
omission in the report.''.
    SEC. 816. MODIFICATION OF WRITTEN APPROVAL REQUIREMENT FOR TASK AND 
      DELIVERY ORDER SINGLE CONTRACT AWARDS.
    Section 2304a(d)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (B), by redesignating clauses (i) and (ii) 
    as subclauses (I) and (II), respectively;
        (2) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (D) as 
    clauses (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv), respectively;
        (3) by striking ``No task or delivery order contract'' and 
    inserting ``(A) Except as provided under subparagraph (B), no task 
    or delivery order contract''; and
        (4) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(B) A task or delivery order contract in an amount estimated to 
exceed $100,000,000 (including all options) may be awarded to a single 
source without the written determination otherwise required under 
subparagraph (A) if the head of the agency has made a written 
determination pursuant to section 2304(c) of this title that procedures 
other than competitive procedures may be used for the awarding of such 
contract.''.
    SEC. 817. RESPONSIBILITY FOR DATA ANALYSIS AND REQUIREMENTS 
      VALIDATION FOR SERVICES CONTRACTS.
    (a) In General.--Section 2329 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``, acting through the 
    Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) and Director of Cost 
    Assessment and Program Evaluation,'' after ``Secretary of 
    Defense'';
        (2) in subsection (b), in the matter preceding paragraph (1), 
    by inserting ``, acting through the Under Secretary of Defense 
    (Comptroller) and Director of Cost Assessment and Program 
    Evaluation,'' after ``Secretary of Defense''; and
        (3) in subsection (c)(2)(A), by inserting ``, acting through 
    the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) and Director of Cost 
    Assessment and Program Evaluation,'' after ``Secretary of 
    Defense''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 818(b) of the John S. McCain 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 
115-232; 132 Stat. 1852) is amended by striking ``the Under Secretary 
of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment'' and inserting ``the Under 
Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) and Director of Cost Assessment and 
Program Evaluation''.
    SEC. 818. DOCUMENTATION OF MARKET RESEARCH RELATED TO COMMERCIAL 
      ITEM DETERMINATIONS.
    (a) Department of Defense Procurements.--
        (1) In general.--Section 2377(c) of title 10, United States 
    Code, is amended--
            (A) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
            (B) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
        paragraph:
        ``(4) The head of an agency shall document the results of 
    market research in a manner appropriate to the size and complexity 
    of the acquisition.''.
        (2) Conforming amendment related to prospective amendment.--
    Section 836(d)(3)(C)(ii) of the John S. McCain National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is 
    amended by striking ``in paragraph (4)'' and inserting ``in 
    paragraph (5)''.
    (b) Civilian Agency Procurements.--Section 3307(d) of title 41, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
        ``(4) Documentation.--The head of the agency shall document the 
    results of market research in a manner appropriate to the size and 
    complexity of the acquisition.''.
    SEC. 819. AVAILABILITY OF DATA ON THE USE OF OTHER TRANSACTION 
      AUTHORITY AND REPORT ON THE USE OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT 
      PROTOTYPE PROJECTS.
    Section 873 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1905; 10 U.S.C. 
2371 note) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)--
            (A) by striking the period at the end and inserting ``; 
        and'';
            (B) by striking ``shall analyze'' and inserting the 
        following: ``shall--
        ``(1) analyze''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(2) make the data collected under subsection (a) accessible 
    to any official designated by the Secretary of Defense for 
    inclusion by such official in relevant reports made by such 
    official.''; and
        (2) by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:
    ``(c) Report Required.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not later than December 31, 2019, and 
    annually thereafter through December 31, 2023, the Secretary of 
    Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
    report on the use of other transaction authority to carry out 
    prototype projects during the preceding fiscal year. Each report 
    shall summarize the data collected under subsection (a) on the 
    nature and extent of each such use of the authority, including a 
    description--
            ``(A) of the participants to an agreement entered into 
        pursuant to the authority of subsection (a) of section 2371b of 
        title 10, United States Code, or a follow-on contract or 
        transaction entered into pursuant to the authority of 
        subsection (f) of such section;
            ``(B) of the quantity of prototype projects to be produced 
        pursuant to such an agreement, follow-on contract, or 
        transaction;
            ``(C) of the amount of payments made pursuant to each such 
        agreement, follow-on contract, or transaction;
            ``(D) of the purpose, description, and status of prototype 
        projects carried out pursuant to each such agreement, follow-on 
        contract, or transaction; and
            ``(E) including case examples, of the successes and 
        challenges with using the authority of such subsection (a) or 
        (f).
        ``(2) Form of report.--A report required under this subsection 
    shall be submitted in unclassified form without any designation 
    relating to dissemination control, but may contain a classified 
    annex.''.
    SEC. 820. NOTIFICATION OF NAVY PROCUREMENT PRODUCTION DISRUPTIONS.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 137 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2339b. Notification of Navy procurement production disruptions
    ``(a) Requirement for Contractor To Provide Notice of Delays.--The 
Secretary of the Navy shall require prime contractors of any Navy 
procurement program funded under either the Shipbuilding and 
Conversion, Navy account or the Other Procurement, Navy account to 
report within 15 calendar days any stop work order or other 
manufacturing disruption of 15 calendar days or more, by the prime 
contractor or any subcontractor, to the respective program manager and 
Navy technical authority.
    ``(b) Quarterly Reports.--The Secretary of the Navy shall submit to 
the congressional defense committees not later than 15 calendar days 
after the end of each quarter of a fiscal year a report listing all 
notifications made pursuant to subsection (a) during the preceding 
quarter.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 137 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 2339a the following new item:

``2339b. Notification of Navy procurement production disruptions.''.
    SEC. 821. MODIFICATION TO ACQUISITION AUTHORITY OF THE COMMANDER OF 
      THE UNITED STATES CYBER COMMAND.
    Section 807 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2224 note) is amended by 
inserting ``on new contract efforts'' after ``may not obligate or 
expend more than $75,000,000''.
    SEC. 822. EXTENSION OF NEVER CONTRACT WITH THE ENEMY.
    Section 841(n) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2021'' and inserting ``December 31, 2023''.
    SEC. 823. MODIFICATION OF JUSTIFICATION AND APPROVAL REQUIREMENT 
      FOR CERTAIN DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CONTRACTS.
    (a) Modification of Justification and Approval Requirement.--
Notwithstanding section 811 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2405)--
        (1) no justification and approval is required under such 
    section for a sole-source contract awarded by the Department of 
    Defense in a covered procurement for an amount not exceeding 
    $100,000,000; and
        (2) for purposes of subsections (a)(2) and (c)(3)(A) of such 
    section, the appropriate official designated to approve the 
    justification for a sole-source contract awarded by the Department 
    of Defense in a covered procurement exceeding $100,000,000 is the 
    official designated in section 2304(f)(1)(B)(ii) of title 10, 
    United States Code.
    (b) Guidance.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall issue guidance to 
implement the authority under subsection (a).
    (c) Comptroller General Review.--
        (1) Data tracking and collection.--The Department of Defense 
    shall track the use of the authority as modified by subsection (a) 
    and make the data available to the Comptroller General for purposes 
    of the report required under paragraph (2).
        (2) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2022, the Comptroller 
    General of the United States shall submit a report to the 
    congressional defense committees on the use of the authority as 
    modified by subsection (a) through the end of fiscal year 2021. The 
    report shall include--
            (A) a review of the financial effect of the change to the 
        justification and approval requirement in subsection (a) on the 
        native corporations and businesses and associated native 
        communities;
            (B) a description of the nature and extent of contracts 
        excluded from the justification and approval requirement by 
        subsection (a); and
            (C) other matters the Comptroller General deems 
        appropriate.
    SEC. 824. EXTENSION OF SUNSET RELATING TO FEDERAL DATA CENTER 
      CONSOLIDATION INITIATIVE.
    Subsection (e) of section 834 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (44 U.S.C. 3601 note) is amended by striking 
``2020'' and inserting ``2022''.
    SEC. 825. PILOT PROGRAM TO ACCELERATE CONTRACTING AND PRICING 
      PROCESSES.
    Section 890 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1919; 10 U.S.C. 
2306a note) is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (b);
        (2) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections (b) 
    and (c), respectively;
        (3) in subsection (b), as redesignated by paragraph (2), by 
    striking ``and an assessment of whether the program should be 
    continued or expanded''; and
        (4) in subsection (c), as so redesignated, by striking 
    ``January 2, 2021'' and inserting ``January 2, 2023''.
    SEC. 826. UNIFORMITY IN APPLICATION OF MICRO-PURCHASE THRESHOLD TO 
      CERTAIN TASK OR DELIVERY ORDERS.
    Section 4106(c) of title 41, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``$2,500'' and inserting ``the micro-purchase threshold under 
section 1902 of this title''.
    SEC. 827. REQUIREMENT FOR COST ESTIMATES ON MODELS OF COMMERCIAL E-
      COMMERCE PORTAL PROGRAM.
    (a) In General.--In implementing section 846 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 41 
U.S.C. 1901 note), the Administrator of General Services shall submit 
to the appropriate congressional committees, not later than one year 
after the first contract is awarded pursuant to such section, a cost 
estimate for the three models for commercial e-commerce portals 
identified in section 4.1 of ``Procurement Through Commercial E-
Commerce Portals Phase II Report: Market Research & Consultation'' 
issued by the Administrator in April 2019.
    (b) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--The term 
``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
        (1) The Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of 
    Representatives.
        (2) The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
    of the Senate and the Committee on Oversight and Reform of the 
    House of Representatives.
        (3) The Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the 
    Senate and the Committee on Small Business of the House of 
    Representatives.

 Subtitle C--Provisions Relating to Major Defense Acquisition Programs

    SEC. 830. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS FOR REPORTING TO CONGRESS ON 
      CERTAIN ACQUISITION PROGRAMS.
    (a) Modification of Report to Congress.--Section 2432 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)(1), by adding after ``major defense 
    acquisition programs'' the following: ``and any program that is 
    estimated by the Secretary of Defense to require an eventual total 
    expenditure for research, development, test, and evaluation of more 
    than $300,000,000 (based on fiscal year 1990 constant dollars) or 
    an eventual total expenditure for procurement, including all 
    planned increments or spirals, of more than $1,800,000,000 (based 
    on fiscal year 1990 constant dollars)''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(i) Form of Report.--A Selected Acquisition Report required under 
this section shall be submitted in unclassified form without any 
designation relating to dissemination control, but may contain a 
classified annex.
    ``(j) Termination.--The requirements under this section shall 
terminate after the final submission covering fiscal year 2021.''.
    (b) Proposal for Reports on Acquisition Programs and Activities.--
Not later than October 15, 2020, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
to the congressional defense committees a proposal for an alternative 
methodology for reporting on all acquisition programs that includes--
        (1) conforming changes from the most recent update of 
    Department of Defense Directive 5000.01 (The Defense Acquisition 
    System) and Department of Defense Instruction 5000.02 (Operation of 
    the Defense Acquisition System);
        (2) the reporting requirements relating to Selected Acquisition 
    Reports under section 2432 of title 10, United States Code;
        (3) the reporting requirements relating to unit costs under 
    section 2433 of such title; and
        (4) the reporting requirements for acquisition programs that 
    use alternative acquisition pathways or tailored acquisition 
    procedures.
    SEC. 831. PILOT PROGRAM TO STREAMLINE DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES FOR 
      WEAPON SYSTEMS.
    (a) Candidate Acquisition Programs.--Not later than February 1, 
2020, each Service Acquisition Executive shall recommend to the 
Secretary of Defense at least one major defense acquisition program for 
a pilot program to include tailored measures to streamline the entire 
milestone decision process, with the results evaluated and reported for 
potential wider use.
    (b) Elements.--Each pilot program selected pursuant to subsection 
(a) shall include the following elements:
        (1) Delineating the appropriate information needed to support 
    milestone decisions, assuring program accountability and oversight, 
    which should be based on the business case principles needed for 
    well-informed milestone decisions, including user-defined 
    requirements, reasonable acquisition and life-cycle cost estimates, 
    and a knowledge-based acquisition plan for maturing technologies, 
    stabilizing the program design, and ensuring key manufacturing 
    processes are in control.
        (2) Developing an efficient process for providing this 
    information to the milestone decision authority by--
            (A) minimizing any reviews between the program office and 
        the different functional staff offices within each chain of 
        command level; and
            (B) establishing frequent, regular interaction between the 
        program office and milestone decision makers, in lieu of 
        documentation reviews, to help expedite the process.
    SEC. 832. ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES PURSUANT TO MATERIEL DEVELOPMENT 
      DECISIONS.
    (a) Timeline.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall update existing 
guidance for analyses of alternatives conducted pursuant to a materiel 
development decision for a major defense acquisition program to 
incorporate the following:
        (1) Study completion within nine months.
        (2) Study guidance issued by the Director, Cost Assessment and 
    Program Evaluation of a scope designed to provide for reasonable 
    completion of the study within the nine-month period.
        (3) Procedures for waiver of the timeline requirements of this 
    subsection on a case-by-case basis if--
            (A) the subject of the analysis is of extreme technical 
        complexity;
            (B) collection of additional intelligence is required to 
        inform the analysis;
            (C) insufficient technical expertise is available to 
        complete the analysis; or
            (D) the Secretary determines that there other sufficient 
        reasons for delay of the analysis.
    (b) Reporting.--If an analysis of alternatives cannot be completed 
within the allotted time, or a waiver is used, the Secretary shall 
report to the congressional defense committees the following 
information:
        (1) For a waiver, the basis for use of the waivers, including 
    the reasons why the study cannot be completed within the allotted 
    time.
        (2) For a study estimated to take more than nine months--
            (A) an estimate of when the analysis will be completed;
            (B) an estimate of any additional costs to complete the 
        analysis; and
            (C) other relevant information pertaining to the analysis 
        and its completion.
    (c) Report on Analyses of Alternatives.--
        (1) Assessment.--
            (A) In general.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment shall engage with an independent 
        entity, including under the Program for Acquisition Innovation 
        Research, to assess the conduct of analyses of alternatives.
            (B) Elements.--The assessment required under subparagraph 
        (A) shall--
                (i) assess the time required to complete analyses of 
            alternatives within the Department of Defense completed 
            over the last five fiscal years, as compared with best 
            practices;
                (ii) provide recommendations and policy options to 
            improve analyses of alternatives; and
                (iii) discuss any other matters as identified by the 
            Under Secretary.
            (C) Access to data.--The Under Secretary shall ensure that 
        the independent entity is provided access to the data, 
        information, and resources necessary to complete the required 
        analyses and assessment.
        (2) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report including the assessment 
    required under paragraph (1) and a review and assessment by the 
    Under Secretary of the findings made in the assessment.
    SEC. 833. NAVAL VESSEL CERTIFICATION REQUIRED BEFORE MILESTONE B 
      APPROVAL.
    Section 2366b(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (3)(O), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
    semicolon;
        (2) in paragraph (4), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting ``; and''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(5) in the case of a naval vessel program, certifies 
    compliance with the requirements of section 8669b of this title.''.

       Subtitle D--Provisions Relating to the Acquisition System

    SEC. 835. EXTRAMURAL ACQUISITION INNOVATION AND RESEARCH 
      ACTIVITIES.
    (a) Extramural Acquisition Innovation and Research Activities.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 139 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by inserting after section 2361 the following new 
    section:
``Sec. 2361a. Extramural acquisition innovation and research activities
    ``(a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through the 
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment and in 
coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
Engineering, shall establish and maintain extramural acquisition 
innovation and research activities as described in subsection (d), 
which shall include an acquisition research organization within a 
civilian college or university that is not owned or operated by the 
Federal Government that is established to provide and maintain 
essential research and development capabilities through a long-term 
strategic relationship with the Department of Defense.
    ``(b) Goals.--The goal of any activity conducted pursuant to this 
section shall be to provide academic analyses and policy alternatives 
for innovation in defense acquisition policies and practices to 
policymakers in the Federal Government by using a variety of means 
intended to widely disseminate research findings from such an activity, 
in addition to executing demonstration and pilot programs of innovative 
acquisition policies and practices.
    ``(c) Director.--
        ``(1) Appointment.--Not later than June 1, 2020, the Secretary 
    of Defense shall appoint an individual from civilian life to serve 
    as the director for the extramural acquisition innovation and 
    research activities required by this section (referred to in this 
    section as the `Director').
        ``(2) Term.--The Director shall serve a term of five years.
    ``(d) Activities.--The activities described in this subsection are 
as follows:
        ``(1) Research on past and current defense acquisition policies 
    and practices, commercial and international best practices, and the 
    application of new technologies and analytical capabilities to 
    improve acquisition policies and practices.
        ``(2) Pilot programs to prototype and demonstrate new 
    acquisition practices for potential transition to wider use in the 
    Department of Defense.
        ``(3) Establishment of data repositories and development of 
    analytical capabilities, in coordination with the Chief Data 
    Officer of the Department of Defense, to enable researchers and 
    acquisition professionals to access and analyze historical data 
    sets to support research and new policy and practice development.
        ``(4) Executive education to--
            ``(A) support acquisition workforce development, including 
        for early career, mid-career, and senior leaders; and
            ``(B) provide appropriate education on acquisition issues 
        to non-acquisition professionals.
        ``(5) On an ongoing basis, a review of the implementation of 
    recommendations contained in relevant Department of Defense and 
    private sector studies on acquisition policies and practices, 
    including--
            ``(A) for recommendations for the enactment of legislation, 
        identify the extent to which the recommendations have been 
        enacted into law by Congress;
            ``(B) for recommendations for the issuance of regulations, 
        identify the extent to which the recommendations have been 
        adopted through the issuance or revision of regulations;
            ``(C) for recommendations for revisions to policies and 
        procedures in the executive branch, identify the extent to 
        which the recommendations have been adopted through issuance of 
        an appropriate implementing directive or other form of 
        guidance; and
            ``(D) for recommendations for the resources required to 
        implement recommendations contained in relevant Department of 
        Defense and private sector studies on acquisition policies and 
        practices.
        ``(6) Engagement with researchers and acquisition professionals 
    in the Department of Defense, as appropriate.
    ``(e) Funding.--Subject to the availability of appropriations, the 
Secretary may use amounts available in the Defense Acquisition 
Workforce and Development Account to carry out the requirements of this 
section.
    ``(f) Annual Report.--Not later than September 30, 2021, and 
annually thereafter, the Director shall submit to the Secretary of 
Defense and the congressional defense committees a report describing 
the activities conducted under this section during the previous 
year.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
    section 2361 the following new item:

``2361a. Extramural acquisition innovation and research activities.''.

        (3) Implementation.--
            (A) Deadline.--Not later than March 1, 2020, the Secretary 
        of Defense shall establish the extramural acquisition 
        innovation and research activities required by section 2361a of 
        title 10, United States Code (as added by this subsection).
            (B) Report.--
                (i) In general.--Not later than January 1, 2021, the 
            Director of the extramural acquisition innovation and 
            research activities appointed under such section shall 
            submit to the Secretary of Defense a report setting forth a 
            plan, proposed budget, and schedule for execution of such 
            activities.
                (ii) Transmittal.--Not later than February 1, 2021, the 
            Secretary of Defense shall transmit the report required 
            under clause (i), together with whatever comments the 
            Secretary considers appropriate, to the Committees on Armed 
            Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives.
    (b) Records of the Section 809 Panel.--
        (1) Transfer and maintenance of records.--Not later than March 
    1, 2020, the records of the Section 809 Panel shall be transferred 
    to, and shall be maintained by, the Defense Technical Information 
    Center.
        (2) Status of records.--Working papers, records of interview, 
    and any other draft work products generated for any purpose by the 
    Section 809 Panel shall be covered by the deliberative process 
    privilege exemption under paragraph (5) of section 552(b) of title 
    5, United States Code.
        (3) Availability.--To the maximum extent practicable, the 
    Secretary shall make the records available to support activities 
    conducted by the research organization described under section 
    2361a of title 10, United States Code (as added by subsection (a)).
        (4) Section 809 panel defined.--In this subsection, the term 
    ``Section 809 Panel'' means the panel established by the Secretary 
    of Defense pursuant to section 809 of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92).
    SEC. 836. REPORT ON REALIGNMENT OF THE DEFENSE ACQUISITION SYSTEM 
      TO IMPLEMENT ACQUISITION REFORMS.
    The Secretary of Defense shall include with the budget for fiscal 
year 2021, as submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105(a) of 
title 31, United States Code, a report on the progress of implementing 
acquisition reform initiatives that have been enacted into law through 
Department of Defense regulations, Directives, Instructions, or other 
guidance. Such report shall include a description of--
        (1) how the Secretary will identify, quantify, assess, and 
    manage acquisition program risks;
        (2) what changes have been made to systems for collecting and 
    sharing data on acquisition programs, including how access to 
    acquisition program data is managed; and
        (3) updates to, or the implementation of, procedures for 
    tailoring acquisition methods, including alternative acquisition 
    pathways such as--
            (A) the use of the ``middle tier'' of acquisition programs 
        described under section 804 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 
        U.S.C. 2302 note);
            (B) the alternative acquisition pathways established under 
        section 805 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note);
            (C) a software acquisition pathway described under section 
        800 of this Act; and
            (D) the use of procedures to respond to urgent operational 
        needs.
    SEC. 837. REPORT AND LIMITATION ON THE AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS 
      RELATING TO THE ``MIDDLE TIER'' OF ACQUISITION PROGRAMS.
    (a) Report.--Not later than December 15, 2019, the Under Secretary 
of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report that includes the guidance 
required under section 804(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note). The 
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall ensure 
such guidance includes the business case elements required by an 
acquisition program established pursuant to such guidance and the 
metrics required to assess the performance of such a program.
    (b) Limitation.--
        (1) In general.--Beginning on December 15, 2019, if the Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment has not 
    submitted the report required under subsection (a), not more than 
    75 percent of the funds specified in paragraph (2) may be obligated 
    or expended until the date on which the report required under 
    subsection (a) has been submitted.
        (2) Funds specified.--The funds specified in this paragraph are 
    the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise 
    made available for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of Defense 
    that remain unobligated as of December 15, 2019, for the following:
            (A) The execution of any acquisition program established 
        pursuant to the guidance required under such section 804(a).
            (B) The operations of the Office of the Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Research & Engineering.
            (C) The operations of the Office of the Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition & Sustainment.
            (D) The operations of the Office of the Director of Cost 
        Analysis and Program Evaluation.
            (E) The operations of the offices of the service 
        acquisition executives of the military departments.
    SEC. 838. REPORT ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY POLICY AND THE CADRE OF 
      INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY EXPERTS.
    (a) In General.--Section 802 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1450) is amended 
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Report.--Not later than December 15, 2019, the Secretary of 
Defense, acting through the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition 
and Sustainment, shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report that includes--
        ``(1) the policy required in subsection (a) of section 2322 of 
    title 10, United States Code;
        ``(2) an identification of each member of the cadre of 
    intellectual property experts required in subsection (b) of such 
    section and the office to which such member belongs;
        ``(3) a description of the leadership structure and the office 
    that will manage the cadre of intellectual property experts; and
        ``(4) a description of the specific activities performed, and 
    programs and efforts supported, by the cadre of intellectual 
    property experts during the 12-month period preceding the date of 
    the report.''.
    (b) Limitation.--
        (1) In general.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
    this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2020 for the 
    Department of Defense, not more than 75 percent may be obligated or 
    expended for any of the offices described in paragraph (2) until 
    the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits the report 
    required under subsection (c) of section 802 of the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 
    131 Stat. 1450), as added by this section.
        (2) Offices described.--The offices described in this paragraph 
    are as follows:
            (A) The Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment.
            (B) The Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army for 
        Acquisition, Logistics, and Technology.
            (C) The Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Navy for 
        Research, Development, and Acquisition.
            (D) The Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force 
        for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics.
    SEC. 839. GUIDANCE AND REPORTS RELATING TO COVERED DEFENSE BUSINESS 
      SYSTEMS.
    (a) Amendments to Guidance for Covered Defense Business Systems.--
Section 2222(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
    ``subsection (c)(1)'' and inserting ``subsection (c)''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(7) Policy to ensure a covered defense business system is in 
    compliance with the Department's auditability requirements.
        ``(8) Policy to ensure approvals required for the development 
    of a covered defense business system.''.
    (b) Reports.--
        (1) Guidance.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report--
            (A) not later than December 31, 2019, that includes the 
        guidance required under paragraph (1) of section 2222(c) of 
        title 10, United States Code; and
            (B) not later than March 31, 2020, that includes the 
        guidance required under paragraph (2) of such section.
        (2) Information technology and defense business enterprise 
    architecture.--Not later than February 1, 2020, the Chief 
    Information Officer of the Department of Defense shall submit to 
    the congressional defense committees a notification that the 
    information technology enterprise architecture required under 
    subparagraph (B) of section 2222(e)(4) of title 10, United States 
    Code--
            (A) has been established, including a schedule for 
        implementing the plan required under such subparagraph (B) and 
        a schedule for integrating the defense business enterprise 
        architecture into the information technology enterprise 
        architecture (as required under subparagraph (A) of such 
        section); or
            (B) has not been established, and include a schedule for--
                (i) establishing such architecture;
                (ii) implementing the plan required under such 
            subparagraph (B); and
                (iii) integrating the defense business enterprise 
            architecture into the information technology enterprise 
            architecture (as required under subparagraph (A) of such 
            section).
    SEC. 840. IMPLEMENTATION GUIDANCE FOR USE OF A MODULAR OPEN SYSTEM 
      APPROACH.
    (a) Guidance for Program Capabilities Development and Acquisition 
Weapon System Design.--Section 2446b of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Implementation Guidance.--The Secretaries of the military 
departments shall issue guidance to implement the requirements of this 
section.''.
    (b) Guidance for Major System Interfaces.--Section 2446c of title 
10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (4), by striking ``and'' at the end;
        (2) in paragraph (5), by striking the period at the end and 
    adding ``; and''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(6) issue guidance to implement the requirements of this 
    section.''.
    SEC. 841. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR THE OFFICE OF THE 
      CHIEF MANAGEMENT OFFICER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    Of the funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of Defense, not more 
than 75 percent may be obligated or expended for the Office of the 
Chief Management Officer until the date on which the Chief Management 
Officer submits to the congressional defense committees--
        (1) the certification of cost savings described in subparagraph 
    (A) of section 921(b)(5) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 10 U.S.C. 2222 note); or
        (2) the notice and justification described in subparagraph (B) 
    of such section.

                  Subtitle E--Industrial Base Matters

    SEC. 845. MODERNIZATION OF ACQUISITION PROCESSES TO ENSURE 
      INTEGRITY OF INDUSTRIAL BASE.
    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 148 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2509. Modernization of acquisition processes to ensure integrity 
    of industrial base
    ``(a) Digitization and Modernization.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall streamline and digitize the existing Department of Defense 
approach for identifying and mitigating risks to the defense industrial 
base across the acquisition process, creating a continuous model that 
uses digital tools, technologies, and approaches designed to ensure the 
accessibility of data to key decision-makers in the Department.
    ``(b) Analytical Framework.--(1) The Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment, in coordination with the Director of the 
Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency and the heads of other 
elements of the Department of Defense as appropriate, shall develop an 
analytical framework for risk mitigation across the acquisition 
process.
    ``(2) The analytical framework required under paragraph (1) shall 
include the following elements:
        ``(A) Characterization and monitoring of supply chain risks, 
    including--
            ``(i) material sources and fragility, including the extent 
        to which sources, items, materials, and articles are mined, 
        produced, or manufactured within or outside the United States;
            ``(ii) telecommunications services or equipment (other than 
        optical transmission components);
            ``(iii) counterfeit parts;
            ``(iv) cybersecurity of contractors;
            ``(v) video surveillance services or equipment;
            ``(vi) vendor vetting in contingency or operational 
        environments;
            ``(vii) other electronic or information technology products 
        and services; and
            ``(viii) other risk areas as determined appropriate.
        ``(B) Characterization and monitoring of risks posed by 
    contractor behavior that constitute violations of laws or 
    regulations, including those relating to--
            ``(i) fraud;
            ``(ii) ownership structures;
            ``(iii) trafficking in persons;
            ``(iv) workers' health and safety;
            ``(v) affiliation with the enemy;
            ``(vi) foreign influence; and
            ``(vii) other risk areas as deemed appropriate.
        ``(C) Characterization and assessment of the acquisition 
    processes and procedures of the Department of Defense, including--
            ``(i) market research;
            ``(ii) responsibility determinations, including 
        consideration of the need for special standards of 
        responsibility to address the risks described in subparagraphs 
        (A) and (B);
            ``(iii) facilities clearances;
            ``(iv) the development of contract requirements;
            ``(v) the technical evaluation of offers and contract 
        awards;
            ``(vi) contractor mobilization, including hiring, training, 
        and establishing facilities;
            ``(vii) contract administration, contract management, and 
        oversight;
            ``(viii) contract audit for closeout;
            ``(ix) suspension and debarment activities and 
        administrative appeals activities;
            ``(x) contractor business system reviews; and
            ``(xi) other relevant processes and procedures.
        ``(D) Characterization and monitoring of the health and 
    activities of the defense industrial base, including those relating 
    to--
            ``(i) balance sheets, revenues, profitability, and debt;
            ``(ii) investment, innovation, and technological and 
        manufacturing sophistication;
            ``(iii) finances, access to capital markets, and cost of 
        raising capital within those markets;
            ``(iv) corporate governance, leadership, and culture of 
        performance; and
            ``(v) history of performance on past Department of Defense 
        and government contracts.
    ``(c) Roles and Responsibilities.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
designate the roles and responsibilities of organizations and 
individuals to execute activities under this section, including--
        ``(1) the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
    Sustainment, including the Office of Defense Pricing and 
    Contracting and the Office of Industrial Policy;
        ``(2) service acquisition executives;
        ``(3) program offices and procuring contracting officers;
        ``(4) administrative contracting officers within the Defense 
    Contract Management Agency and the Supervisor of Shipbuilding;
        ``(5) the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency;
        ``(6) the Defense Contract Audit Agency;
        ``(7) each element of the Department of Defense which own or 
    operate systems containing data relevant to contractors of the 
    Department;
        ``(8) the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
    Engineering;
        ``(9) the suspension and debarment official of the Department;
        ``(10) the Chief Information Officer; and
        ``(11) other relevant organizations and individuals.
    ``(d) Enabling Data, Tools, and Systems.--(1)(A) The Under 
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, in consultation 
with the Chief Data Officer of the Department of Defense and the 
Director of the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency, shall 
assess the extent to which existing systems of record relevant to risk 
assessments and contracting are producing, exposing, and timely 
maintaining valid and reliable data for the purposes of the 
Department's continuous assessment and mitigation of risks in the 
defense industrial base.
    ``(B) The assessment required under subparagraph (A) shall include 
the following elements:
        ``(i) Identification of the necessary source data, to include 
    data from contractors, intelligence and security activities, 
    program offices, and commercial research entities.
        ``(ii) A description of the modern data infrastructure, tools, 
    and applications and what changes would improve the effectiveness 
    and efficiency of mitigating the risks described in subsection 
    (b)(2).
        ``(iii) An assessment of the following systems owned or 
    operated outside of the Department of Defense that the Department 
    depends upon or to which it provides data:
            ``(I) The Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity 
        Information System (FAPIIS).
            ``(II) The System for Award Management (SAM).
            ``(III) The Federal Procurement Data System-Next Generation 
        (FPDS-NG).
            ``(IV) The Electronic Data Management Information System.
            ``(V) Other systems the Secretary of Defense determines 
        appropriate.
        ``(iv) An assessment of systems owned or operated by the 
    Department of Defense, including the Defense Counterintelligence 
    and Security Agency and other defense agencies and field activities 
    used to capture and analyze the status and performance (including 
    past performance) of vendors and contractors.
    ``(2) Based on the findings pursuant to paragraph (1), the 
Secretary of Defense shall develop a unified set of activities to 
modernize the systems of record, data sources and collection methods, 
and data exposure mechanisms. The unified set of activities should 
feature--
        ``(A) the ability to continuously collect data on, assess, and 
    mitigate risks;
        ``(B) data analytics and business intelligence tools and 
    methods; and
        ``(C) continuous development and continuous delivery of secure 
    software to implement the activities.
    ``(e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to limit or modify any other procurement policy, procedure, 
requirement, or restriction provided by law.
    ``(f) Implementation and Reporting Requirements.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall carry out the implementation phases set forth in, and 
submit to the congressional defense committees the items of information 
required by, the following paragraphs:
        ``(1) Phase 1: implementation plan.--Not later than 90 days 
    after the date of the enactment of this section, an implementation 
    plan and schedule for carrying out the framework established 
    pursuant to subsection (b), including--
            ``(A) a discussion and recommendations for any changes to, 
        or exemptions from, laws necessary for effective 
        implementation, including updating the definitions in section 
        2339a(e) of this title relating to covered procurement, covered 
        system, and covered item of supply, and any similar terms 
        defined in other law or regulation; and
            ``(B) a process for an entity to contact the Department 
        after the entity has taken steps to remediate, mitigate, or 
        otherwise address the risks identified by the Department in 
        conducting activities under subsection (b).
        ``(2) Phase 2: implementation of framework.--Not later than one 
    year after the date of the submission of the implementation plan 
    and schedule required under paragraph (1), a report on the actions 
    taken to implement the framework established pursuant to subsection 
    (b).
    ``(g) Comptroller General Reviews.--
        ``(1) Briefing.--Not later than February 15, 2020, the 
    Comptroller General of the United States shall brief the 
    congressional defense committees on Department of Defense efforts 
    over the previous 5 years to continuously assess and mitigate risks 
    to the defense industrial base across the acquisition process, and 
    a summary of current and planned efforts.
        ``(2) Periodic assessments.--The Comptroller General shall 
    submit to the congressional defense committees three periodic 
    assessments of Department of Defense progress in implementing the 
    framework required under subsection (b), to be provided not later 
    than October 15, 2020, March 15, 2022, and March 15, 2024.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
subchapter II of chapter 148 of such title is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 2508 the following new item:

``2509. Modernization of acquisition processes to ensure integrity of 
          industrial base.''.
    SEC. 846. REPORT REQUIREMENTS FOR THE NATIONAL TECHNOLOGY AND 
      INDUSTRIAL BASE.
    (a) National Security Strategy for National Technology and 
Industrial Base.--Section 2501(a) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after the first sentence the following new 
sentence: ``The Secretary shall submit such strategy to Congress not 
later than 180 days after the date of submission of the national 
security strategy report required under section 108 of the National 
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3043).''.
    (b) Annual Report to Congress.--Section 2504(3) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting 
    ``Executive order or'' after ``pursuant to'';
        (2) by amending subparagraph (A) to read as follows:
            ``(A) a map of the industrial base;'';
        (3) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as subparagraph (C); and
        (4) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following new 
    subparagraph:
            ``(B) a prioritized list of gaps or vulnerabilities in the 
        national technology and industrial base, including--
                ``(i) a description of mitigation strategies necessary 
            to address such gaps or vulnerabilities;
                ``(ii) the identification of the Secretary concerned or 
            the head of the Defense Agency responsible for addressing 
            such gaps or vulnerabilities; and
                ``(iii) a proposed timeline for action to address such 
            gaps or vulnerabilities; and''.
    (c) Annual Report on Unfunded Priorities for National Technical 
Industrial Base.--
        (1) In general.--Subchapter II of chapter 148 of title 10, 
    United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 2504 the 
    following new section:
``Sec. 2504a. Unfunded priorities of the national technology and 
     industrial base: annual report
    ``(a) Annual Report.--Not later than 10 days after the date on 
which the budget of the President for a fiscal year is submitted to 
Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit to the Secretary 
of Defense, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the 
congressional defense committees a report on the unfunded priorities to 
address gaps or vulnerabilities in the national technology and 
industrial base.
    ``(b) Elements.--
        ``(1) In general.--Each report under subsection (a) shall 
    specify, for each unfunded priority covered by such report, the 
    following:
            ``(A) A summary description of such priority, including the 
        objectives to be achieved if such priority is funded (whether 
        in whole or in part).
            ``(B) The additional amount of funds recommended in 
        connection with the objectives under subparagraph (A).
            ``(C) Account information with respect to such priority, 
        including the following (as applicable):
                ``(i) Line Item Number (LIN) for applicable procurement 
            accounts.
                ``(ii) Program Element (PE) number for applicable 
            research, development, test, and evaluation accounts.
                ``(iii) Sub-activity group (SAG) for applicable 
            operation and maintenance accounts.
        ``(2) Prioritization of priorities.--Each report shall present 
    the unfunded priorities covered by such report in order of urgency 
    of priority.
    ``(c) Unfunded Priority Defined.--In this section, the term 
`unfunded priority', in the case of a fiscal year, means a program, 
activity, or mission requirement of the national technology and 
industrial base that--
        ``(1) is not funded in the budget of the President for the 
    fiscal year as submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of 
    title 31;
        ``(2) is necessary to address gaps or vulnerabilities in the 
    national technology and industrial base; and
        ``(3) would have been recommended for funding through the 
    budget referred to in paragraph (1) if--
            ``(A) additional resources had been available for the 
        budget to fund the program, activity, or mission requirement; 
        or
            ``(B) the program, activity, or mission requirement had 
        emerged before the budget was formulated.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections for such 
    subchapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``2504a. Unfunded priorities of the national technology and industrial 
          base: annual report.''.
    SEC. 847. MITIGATING RISKS RELATED TO FOREIGN OWNERSHIP, CONTROL, 
      OR INFLUENCE OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CONTRACTORS OR 
      SUBCONTRACTORS.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Beneficial owner; beneficial ownership.--The terms 
    ``beneficial owner'' and ``beneficial ownership'' shall be 
    determined in a manner that is not less stringent than the manner 
    set forth in section 240.13d-3 of title 17, Code of Federal 
    Regulations (as in effect on the date of the enactment of this 
    Act).
        (2) Company.--The term ``company'' means any corporation, 
    company, limited liability company, limited partnership, business 
    trust, business association, or other similar entity.
        (3) Covered contractor or subcontractor.--The term ``covered 
    contractor or subcontractor'' means a company that is an existing 
    or prospective contractor or subcontractor of the Department of 
    Defense on a contract or subcontract with a value in excess of 
    $5,000,000, except as provided in subsection (c).
        (4) Foreign ownership, control, or influence; foci.--The terms 
    ``foreign ownership, control, or influence'' and ``FOCI'' have the 
    meanings given those terms in the National Industrial Security 
    Program Operating Manual (DOD 5220.22-M), or a successor document.
    (b) Improved Assessment and Mitigation of Risks Related to Foreign 
Ownership, Control, or Influence.--
        (1) In general.--In developing and implementing the analytical 
    framework for mitigating risk relating to ownership structures, as 
    required by section 2509 of title 10, United States Code, as added 
    by section 845 of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall improve 
    the process and procedures for the assessment and mitigation of 
    risks related to foreign ownership, control, or influence (FOCI) of 
    contractors and subcontractors doing business with the Department 
    of Defense.
        (2) Elements.--The process and procedures for the assessment 
    and mitigation of risk relating to ownership structures referred to 
    in paragraph (1) shall include the following elements:
            (A) Assessment of foci.--(i) A requirement for covered 
        contractors and subcontractors to disclose to the Defense 
        Counterintelligence and Security Agency, or its successor 
        organization, their beneficial ownership and whether they are 
        under FOCI.
            (ii) A requirement to update such disclosures when changes 
        occur to information previously provided, consistent with or 
        similar to the procedures for updating FOCI information under 
        the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (DOD 
        5220.22-M), or a successor document.
            (iii) A requirement for covered contractors and 
        subcontractors determined to be under FOCI to disclose contact 
        information for each of its foreign owners that is a beneficial 
        owner.
            (iv) A requirement that, at a minimum, the disclosures 
        required by this paragraph be provided at the time the contract 
        or subcontract is awarded, amended, or renewed, but in no case 
        later than one year after the Secretary prescribes regulations 
        to carry out this subsection.
            (B) Responsibility determination.--Consistent with section 
        2509 of title 10, United States Code, as added by section 845 
        of this Act, consideration of FOCI risks as part of 
        responsibility determinations, including--
                (i) whether to establish a special standard of 
            responsibility relating to FOCI risks for covered 
            contractors or subcontractors, and the extent to which the 
            policies and procedures consistent with or similar to those 
            relating to FOCI under the National Industrial Security 
            Program shall be applied to covered contractors or 
            subcontractors;
                (ii) procedures for contracting officers making 
            responsibility determinations regarding whether covered 
            contractors and subcontractors may be under foreign 
            ownership, control, or influence and for determining 
            whether there is reason to believe that such foreign 
            ownership, control, or influence would pose a risk or 
            potential risk to national security or potential compromise 
            because of sensitive data, systems, or processes, such as 
            personally identifiable information, cybersecurity, or 
            national security systems involved with the contract or 
            subcontract; and
                (iii) modification of policies, directives, and 
            practices to provide that an assessment that a covered 
            contractor or subcontractor is under FOCI may be a 
            sufficient basis for a contracting officer to determine 
            that a contractor or subcontractor is not responsible.
            (C) Contract requirements, administration, and oversight 
        relating to foci.--
                (i) Requirements for contract clauses providing for and 
            enforcing disclosures related to changes in FOCI or 
            beneficial ownership during performance of the contract or 
            subcontract, consistent with subparagraph (A), and 
            necessitating the effective mitigation of risks related to 
            FOCI throughout the duration of the contract or 
            subcontract.
                (ii) Pursuant to section 831(c), designation of the 
            appropriate Department of Defense official responsible to 
            approve and to take actions relating to award, 
            modification, termination of a contract, or direction to 
            modify or terminate a subcontract due to an assessment by 
            the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency, or its 
            successor organization, that a covered contractor or 
            subcontractor under FOCI poses a risk to national security 
            or potential risk of compromise.
                (iii) A requirement for the provision of additional 
            information regarding beneficial ownership and control of 
            any covered contractor or subcontractor on the contract or 
            subcontract.
                (iv) Other measures as necessary to be consistent with 
            other relevant practices, policies, regulations, and 
            actions, including those under the National Industrial 
            Security Program.
    (c) Applicability to Contracts and Subcontracts for Commercial 
Products and Services and Other Forms of Acquisition Agreements.--
        (1) Commercial products and services.--The requirements under 
    subsection (b)(2)(A) and (b)(2)(C) shall not apply to a contract or 
    subcontract for commercial products or services, unless a 
    designated senior Department of Defense official specifically 
    requires the applicability of subsections (b)(2)(A) and (b)(2)(C) 
    based on a determination by the designated senior official that the 
    contract or subcontract involves a risk or potential risk to 
    national security or potential compromise because of sensitive 
    data, systems, or processes, such as personally identifiable 
    information, cybersecurity, or national security systems.
        (2) Research and development and procurement activities.--The 
    Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the requirements of this 
    section are applied to research and development and procurement 
    activities, including for the delivery of services, established 
    through any means including those under section 2358(b) of title 
    10, United States Code.
    (d) Availability of Resources.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
sufficient resources, including subject matter expertise, are allocated 
to execute the functions necessary to carry out this section, including 
the assessment, mitigation, contract administration, and oversight 
functions.
    (e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to limit or modify any other procurement policy, procedure, 
requirement, or restriction provided by law, including section 721 of 
the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4565), as amended by the 
Foreign Interference Risk Review Modernization Act of 2018 (subtitle A 
of title XVII of Public Law 115-232).
    (f) Availability of Beneficial Ownership Data.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a 
    process to update systems of record to improve the assessment and 
    mitigation of risks associated with FOCI through the inclusion and 
    updating of all appropriate associated uniquely identifying 
    information about the contracts and contractors and subcontracts 
    and subcontractors in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity 
    Information System (FAPIIS), administered by the General Services 
    Administration, and the Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) 
    database, administered by the Defense Logistics Agency.
        (2) Limited availability of information.--The Secretary of 
    Defense shall ensure that the information required to be disclosed 
    pursuant to this section is--
            (A) not made public;
            (B) made available via the FAPIIS and CAGE databases; and
            (C) made available to appropriate government departments or 
        agencies.
    SEC. 848. PROHIBITION ON OPERATION OR PROCUREMENT OF FOREIGN-MADE 
      UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS.
    (a) Prohibition on Agency Operation or Procurement.--The Secretary 
of Defense may not operate or enter into or renew a contract for the 
procurement of--
        (1) a covered unmanned aircraft system that--
            (A) is manufactured in a covered foreign country or by an 
        entity domiciled in a covered foreign country;
            (B) uses flight controllers, radios, data transmission 
        devices, cameras, or gimbals manufactured in a covered foreign 
        country or by an entity domiciled in a covered foreign country;
            (C) uses a ground control system or operating software 
        developed in a covered foreign country or by an entity 
        domiciled in a covered foreign country; or
            (D) uses network connectivity or data storage located in or 
        administered by an entity domiciled in a covered foreign 
        country; or
        (2) a system manufactured in a covered foreign country or by an 
    entity domiciled in a covered foreign country for the detection or 
    identification of covered unmanned aircraft systems.
    (b) Exemption.--The Secretary of Defense is exempt from the 
restriction under subsection (a) if the operation or procurement is for 
the purposes of--
        (1) Counter-UAS surrogate testing and training; or
        (2) intelligence, electronic warfare, and information warfare 
    operations, testing, analysis, and training.
    (c) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense may waive the restriction 
under subsection (a) on a case by case basis by certifying in writing 
to the congressional defense committees that the operation or 
procurement is required in the national interest of the United States.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Covered foreign country.--The term ``covered foreign 
    country'' means the People's Republic of China.
        (2) Covered unmanned aircraft system.--The term ``covered 
    unmanned aircraft system'' means an unmanned aircraft system and 
    any related services and equipment.
    SEC. 849. MODIFICATION OF PROHIBITION ON ACQUISITION OF SENSITIVE 
      MATERIALS FROM NON-ALLIED FOREIGN NATIONS.
    (a) Expansion of Materials Covered by Prohibition on Sale From 
National Defense Stockpile.--Subsection (a)(2) of section 2533c of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended, in the matter preceding 
subparagraph (A), by striking ``covered material'' and inserting 
``material''.
    (b) Inclusion of Tantalum in Definition of Covered Materials.--
Subsection (d)(1) of such section is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
    semicolon;
        (2) in subparagraph (D), by striking the period and inserting 
    ``; and''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(E) tantalum metals and alloys.''.
    SEC. 850. ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF CERTAIN RARE EARTH MATERIALS.
    (a) Authority to Dispose of and Acquire Materials for the National 
Defense Stockpile.--
        (1) Disposal authority.--Pursuant to section 5(b) of the 
    Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 
    98d(b)), the National Defense Stockpile Manager shall dispose of 
    3,000,000 pounds of tungsten ores and concentrates contained in the 
    National Defense Stockpile (in addition to any amount previously 
    authorized for disposal).
        (2) Acquisition authority.--
            (A) Authority.--Using funds available in the National 
        Defense Stockpile Transaction Fund, the National Defense 
        Stockpile Manager may acquire the following materials 
        determined to be strategic and critical materials required to 
        meet the defense, industrial, and essential civilian needs of 
        the United States:
                (i) Aerospace-grade rayon.
                (ii) Electrolytic manganese metal.
                (iii) Pitch-based carbon fiber.
                (iv) Rare earth cerium compounds.
                (v) Rare earth lanthanum compounds.
            (B) Amount of authority.--The National Defense Stockpile 
        Manager may use up to $37,420,000 in the National Defense 
        Stockpile Transaction Fund for acquisition of the materials 
        specified in this paragraph.
        (3) Fiscal year limitation.--The authority under this 
    subsection is available for purchases made during fiscal year 2020 
    through fiscal year 2024.
    (b) Sense of Congress Relating to National Defense Stockpile 
Sales.--It is the sense of Congress that tantalum should be designated 
as a strategic and critical material under the Strategic and Critical 
Materials Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98 et seq.) required to meet the 
defense, industrial, and essential civilian needs of the United States.
    (c) Report on Supply Chain Issues for Rare Earth Materials.--Not 
later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Administrator of the Defense Logistics Agency, in coordination with the 
Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Industrial Policy, shall 
submit a report to Congress assessing issues relating to the supply 
chain for rare earth materials. Such report shall include the 
following:
        (1) An assessment of the rare earth materials in the reserves 
    held by the United States.
        (2) A estimate of the needs of the United States for rare earth 
    materials--
            (A) in general; and
            (B) to support a major near-peer conflict as described in 
        war game scenarios in the 2018 National Defense Strategy.
        (3) An assessment of the extent to which substitutes for rare 
    earth materials are available.
        (4) A strategy or plan to encourage the use of rare earth 
    materials mined, refined, processed, melted, or sintered in the 
    United States, or from trusted allies, including an assessment of 
    the best acquisition practices (which shall include an analysis of 
    best value contracting methods) to ensure the viability of trusted 
    suppliers of rare earth materials to meet national security needs.
    SEC. 851. PILOT PROGRAM FOR DEVELOPMENT OF TECHNOLOGY-ENHANCED 
      CAPABILITIES WITH PARTNERSHIP INTERMEDIARIES.
    (a) Establishment.--The Commander of the United States Special 
Operations Command may use the greater of $2,000,000 or 5 percent of 
the funds required to be expended by the United States Special 
Operations Command under section 9(f)(1) of the Small Business Act (15 
U.S.C. 638(f)(1)) for a pilot program to increase participation by 
small business concerns in the development of technology-enhanced 
capabilities for special operations forces.
    (b) Use of Partnership Intermediary.--
        (1) Authorization.--The Commander of the United States Special 
    Operations Command may modify an existing agreement with a 
    partnership intermediary to assist the Commander in carrying out 
    the pilot program under this section, including with respect to the 
    award of contracts and agreements to small business concerns.
        (2) Use of funds.--None of the funds referred to in subsection 
    (a) shall be used to pay a partnership intermediary for any 
    administrative costs associated with the pilot program.
    (c) Report.--Not later than October 1, 2020, and October 1, 2021, 
the Commander of the United States Special Operations Command, in 
coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
Engineering, shall submit to the congressional defense committees, the 
Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives, and the 
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate a report 
describing any agreement with a partnership intermediary entered into 
pursuant to this section. The report shall include, for each such 
agreement, the amount of funds obligated, an identification of the 
recipient of such funds, and a description of the use of such funds.
    (d) Termination.--The authority to carry out a pilot program under 
this section shall terminate on September 30, 2021.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Partnership intermediary.--The term ``partnership 
    intermediary'' has the meaning given the term in section 23(c) of 
    the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 
    3715(c)).
        (2) Small business concern.--The term ``small business 
    concern'' has the meaning given the term under section 3 of the 
    Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632).
        (3) Small business innovation research program.--The term 
    ``Small Business Innovation Research Program'' has the meaning 
    given the term in section 9(e)(4) of the Small Business Act (15 
    U.S.C. 638(e)).
        (4) Small business technology transfer program.--The term 
    ``Small Business Technology Transfer Program'' has the meaning 
    given the term in section 9(e)(6) of the Small Business Act (15 
    U.S.C. 638(e)).
        (5) Technology-enhanced capability.--The term ``technology-
    enhanced capability'' means a product, concept, or process that 
    improves the ability of a member of the Armed Forces to achieve an 
    assigned mission.
    SEC. 852. AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL TO CARRY OUT THE PROCUREMENT 
      TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT PROGRAM.
    (a) Authorized Official.--Effective October 1, 2021, section 
2411(3) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking 
``Director of the Defense Logistics Agency'' and inserting ``Under 
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
    (b) Report and Briefing.--Not later than November 1, 2020, the 
Secretary of Defense shall provide to the congressional defense 
committees a written report and briefing on the activities carried out 
in preparation for the transition of responsibilities for carrying out 
the procurement technical assistance cooperative agreement program 
under chapter 142 of title 10, United States Code, from the Director of 
Defense Logistics Agency to the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment, as required by subsection (a).
    (c) Annual Budget Justification Documents.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to Congress, as a part of the defense budget 
materials (as defined in section 234(d) of title 10, United States 
Code) for fiscal year 2021 and each fiscal year thereafter, a budget 
justification display that includes the procurement technical 
assistance cooperative agreement program under chapter 142 of title 10, 
United States Code, as part of the budget justification for Operation 
and Maintenance, Defense-wide for the Office of the Secretary of 
Defense.
    SEC. 853. REQUIREMENT THAT CERTAIN SHIP COMPONENTS BE MANUFACTURED 
      IN THE NATIONAL TECHNOLOGY AND INDUSTRIAL BASE.
    (a) Additional Procurement Limitation.--Section 2534(a) of title 
10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following 
new paragraph:
        ``(6) Components for auxiliary ships.--Subject to subsection 
    (k), large medium-speed diesel engines.''.
    (b) Implementation.--Such section is further amended by adding at 
the end the following new subsection:
    ``(k) Implementation of Auxiliary Ship Component Limitation.--
Subsection (a)(6) applies only with respect to contracts awarded by the 
Secretary of a military department for new construction of an auxiliary 
ship after the date of the enactment of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 using funds available for 
National Defense Sealift Fund programs or Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
Navy. For purposes of this subsection, the term `auxiliary ship' does 
not include an icebreaker or a special mission ship.''.
    SEC. 854. ADDITION OF DOMESTICALLY PRODUCED STAINLESS STEEL 
      FLATWARE AND DINNERWARE TO THE BERRY AMENDMENT.
    (a) Addition of Domestically Produced Stainless Steel Flatware and 
Dinnerware.--
        (1) In general.--Section 2533a(b) of title 10, United States 
    Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(3) Stainless steel flatware.
        ``(4) Dinnerware.''.
        (2) Applicability.--Paragraphs (3) and (4) of section 2533a(b) 
    of title 10, United States Code, as added by paragraph (1), shall 
    apply with respect to contracts entered into on or after the date 
    occurring 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
        (3) Repeal.--Effective September 30, 2023, such paragraphs (3) 
    and (4) are repealed.
    (b) Report.--
        (1) Report required.--Not later than October 1, 2020, the 
    Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
    committees a report that provides a market survey, cost assessment, 
    description of national security considerations, and a 
    recommendation regarding whether the procurement of dinnerware and 
    stainless steel flatware should be limited to sources in the United 
    States.
        (2) Contents.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall 
    include an analysis of the following with respect to dinnerware and 
    stainless steel flatware:
            (A) The extent to which such items have commercial 
        applications.
            (B) The number of such items to be procured by current 
        programs of record.
            (C) The criticality of such items to a military unit's 
        mission accomplishment.
            (D) The estimated cost and other considerations of 
        reconstituting the production capability of such items, if not 
        maintained in the United States.
            (E) National security regulations or restrictions imposed 
        on such items that may not be imposed on such items if provided 
        by a competitor outside the United States.
            (F) Federal, State, and local government regulations that 
        are not related to national security that are imposed on such 
        items that may not be imposed on a competitor outside the 
        United States.
            (G) The extent to which such items is fielded in current 
        programs of record.
            (H) The extent to which such items can be procured as and 
        when needed in satisfactory quality and sufficient quantity at 
        United States market prices.
            (I) The benefits accrued to the Department of Defense and 
        the defense industrial base to procure such items from sources 
        outside the United States.
    SEC. 855. APPLICATION OF MISCELLANEOUS TECHNOLOGY BASE POLICIES AND 
      PROGRAMS TO THE COLUMBIA-CLASS SUBMARINE PROGRAM.
    Notwithstanding subchapter V of chapter 148 of title 10, United 
States Code (except for sections 2534, 2533a, and 2533b of such title), 
for a period of one year beginning on the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the milestone decision authority (as defined in section 2366a of 
title 10, United States Code) for the Columbia-class submarine program 
shall ensure that such program maintains the Acquisition Program 
Baseline schedule dates approved under the Milestone B approval (as 
defined in such section).
    SEC. 856. APPLICATION OF LIMITATION ON PROCUREMENT OF GOODS OTHER 
      THAN UNITED STATES GOODS TO THE FFG-FRIGATE PROGRAM.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, amounts authorized to 
carry out the FFG-Frigate Program may be used to award a new contract 
that provides for the acquisition of the following components 
regardless of whether those components are manufactured in the United 
States:
        (1) Auxiliary equipment (including pumps) for shipboard 
    services.
        (2) Propulsion equipment (including engines, reduction gears, 
    and propellers).
        (3) Shipboard cranes.
        (4) Spreaders for shipboard cranes.
    SEC. 857. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING CONSIDERATION OF PRICE IN 
      PROCUREMENT OF THE FFG(X) FRIGATE.
    It is the sense of Congress that during fiscal year 2020, in 
evaluating proposals for a contract to procure a FFG(X) frigate, the 
Secretary of the Navy should ensure price is a critical factor.

        Subtitle F--Provisions Relating to Acquisition Workforce

    SEC. 860. ESTABLISHMENT OF DEFENSE CIVILIAN TRAINING CORPS.
    (a) In General.--Part III of subtitle A of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting after chapter 112 the following new 
chapter:

             ``CHAPTER 113--DEFENSE CIVILIAN TRAINING CORPS

``Sec. 2200g. Establishment.
``Sec. 2200h. Program elements.
``Sec. 2200i. Model authorities.
``Sec. 2200j. Definitions.

``SEC. 2200g. ESTABLISHMENT.
    ``For the purposes of preparing selected students for public 
service in Department of Defense occupations relating to acquisition, 
science, engineering, or other civilian occupations determined by the 
Secretary of Defense, and to target critical skill gaps in the 
Department of Defense, the Secretary of Defense shall establish and 
maintain a Defense Civilian Training Corps program, organized into one 
or more units, at any accredited civilian educational institution 
authorized to grant baccalaureate degrees.
``SEC. 2200h. PROGRAM ELEMENTS.
    ``In establishing the program, the Secretary of Defense shall 
determine the following:
        ``(1) A methodology to identify and target critical skills gaps 
    in Department of Defense occupations relating to acquisition, 
    science, engineering, or other civilian occupations determined by 
    the Secretary of Defense.
        ``(2) A mechanism to track and report the success of the 
    program in eliminating any critical skills gaps identified under 
    paragraph (1).
        ``(3) Criteria for an accredited civilian educational 
    institution to participate in the program.
        ``(4) The eligibility of a student to become a member of the 
    program.
        ``(5) Criteria required for a member of the program to receive 
    financial assistance from the Department of Defense.
        ``(6) The term of service as an employee of the Department of 
    Defense required for a member of the program to receive such 
    financial assistance.
        ``(7) Criteria required for a member of the program to be 
    released from a term of service.
        ``(8) The method by which a successful graduate of the program 
    may gain immediate employment in the Department of Defense.
        ``(9) Resources required for implementation of the program.
``SEC. 2200i. MODEL AUTHORITIES.
    ``In making determinations under section 2200h of this title, the 
Secretary of Defense shall use the authorities under chapters 103 and 
111 of this title as guides.
``SEC. 2200j. DEFINITIONS.
    ``In this chapter:
        ``(1) The term `program' means the Defense Civilian Training 
    Corps program established under section 2200g.
        ``(2) The term `member of the program' means a student at an 
    accredited civilian educational institution who is enrolled in the 
    program.''.
    (b) Implementation Timeline.--
        (1) Initial implementation.--Not later than February 15, 2020, 
    the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
    committees a plan and schedule to implement the Defense Civilian 
    Training Corps program established under chapter 113 of title 10, 
    United States Code (as added by subsection (a)) at one accredited 
    civilian educational institution authorized to grant baccalaureate 
    degrees not later than August 1, 2021. The plan shall include a 
    list of critical skills gaps the program will address and 
    recommendations for any legislative changes required for effective 
    implementation of the program.
        (2) Expansion.--Not later than December 31, 2020, the Secretary 
    of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees an 
    expansion plan and schedule to expand the Defense Civilian Training 
    Corps program to five accredited civilian educational institutions 
    not later than August 1, 2022.
        (3) Full implementation.--Not later than December 31, 2021, the 
    Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
    committees a full implementation plan and schedule to expand the 
    Defense Civilian Training Corps program to at least 20 accredited 
    civilian educational institutions with not fewer than 400 members 
    enrolled in the program not later than August 1, 2023.
    SEC. 861. DEFENSE ACQUISITION WORKFORCE CERTIFICATION, EDUCATION, 
      AND CAREER FIELDS.
    (a) Professional Certification Requirement.--
        (1) Professional certification required for all acquisition 
    workforce personnel.--Section 1701a of title 10, United States 
    Code, is amended--
            (A) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections 
        (d) and (e), respectively; and
            (B) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(c) Professional Certification.--(1) In General.--The Secretary 
of Defense shall implement a certification program to provide for a 
professional certification requirement for all members of the 
acquisition workforce. Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
certification requirement for any acquisition workforce career field 
shall be based on standards developed by a third-party accredited 
program based on nationally or internationally recognized standards.
    ``(2) Requirements for Secretary.--If the Secretary determines 
that, for a particular acquisition workforce career field, a third-
party accredited program based on nationally or internationally 
recognized standards does not exist, the Secretary shall establish the 
certification requirement for that career field that conforms with the 
practices of national or international accrediting organizations. The 
Secretary shall determine the best approach for meeting the 
certification requirement for any such career field, including by 
implementing such certification requirement through entities outside 
the Department of Defense, and may design and implement such 
certification requirement without regard to section 1746 of this 
title.''.
        (2) Performance management.--Subsection (b) of such section is 
    amended--
            (A) in paragraph (5), by striking ``encourage'' and 
        inserting ``direct''; and
            (B) in paragraph (6), by inserting ``and consequences'' 
        after ``warnings''.
        (3) Participation in professional associations.--Subsection (b) 
    of such section is further amended--
            (A) by redesignating paragraphs (6), (7), (8), and (9) as 
        paragraphs (7), (8), (9), and (10), respectively; and
            (B) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following new 
        paragraph:
        ``(6) authorize a member of the acquisition workforce to 
    participate in professional associations, consistent with the 
    performance plan of such a member in order to provide the member 
    with the opportunity to gain leadership and management skills.''.
        (4) General education, training, and experience requirements.--
    Section 1723 of such title is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a)(3), by striking the second sentence; 
        and
            (B) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``encourage'' and 
        inserting ``direct''.
        (5) Effective date.--The Secretary of Defense shall implement 
    procedures to institute the program required by subsection (c) of 
    section 1701a of title 10, United States Code, as added by 
    paragraph (1), not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act.
    (b) Elimination of Statutory Requirement for Completion of 24 
Semester Credit Hours.--
        (1) Qualification requirements for contracting positions.--
    Section 1724 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a)(3)--
                (i) by striking ``(A)'' after ``(3)''; and
                (ii) by striking ``, and (B)'' and all that follows 
            through ``and management''; and
            (B) in subsection (b), by striking ``requirements'' in the 
        first sentences of paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting 
        ``requirement'';
            (C) in subsection (e)--
                (i) in paragraph (1)--

                    (I) by striking ``requirements in subparagraphs (A) 
                and (B) of subsection (a)(3)'' and inserting 
                ``requirement of subsection (a)(3)''; and
                    (II) in subparagraph (C), by striking 
                ``requirements'' and inserting ``requirement''; and

                (ii) in paragraph (2)--

                    (I) by striking ``shall have--'' and all that 
                follows through ``been awarded'' and inserting ``shall 
                have been awarded'';
                    (II) by striking ``; or'' and inserting a period; 
                and
                    (III) by striking subparagraph (B); and

            (D) in subsection (f), by striking ``, including--'' and 
        all that follows and inserting a period.
        (2) Selection criteria and procedures.--Section 1732 of such 
    title is amended--
            (A) in subsection (b)(1)--
                (i) by striking ``Such requirements,'' and all the 
            follows through ``the person--'' and inserting ``Such 
            requirements shall include a requirement that the person--
            '';
                (ii) by striking subparagraph (B); and
                (iii) by redesignating clauses (i) and (ii) as 
            subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, and conforming the 
            margins accordingly;
            (B) in subsection (c), by striking ``requirements of 
        subsections (b)(1)(A) and (b)(1)(B)'' in paragraphs (1) and (2) 
        and inserting ``requirement of subsection (b)(1)''; and
            (C) in subsection (d)--
                (i) by striking ``(1) Except as provided in paragraph 
            (2),''; and
                (ii) by striking paragraph (2).
    (c) Defense Acquisition University.--Section 1746 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)--
            (A) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs 
        (4) and (5), respectively;
            (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
        paragraphs:
        ``(2) The professors, instructors, and lecturers employed under 
    paragraph (1) shall include individuals from civilian colleges or 
    universities that are not owned or operated by the Federal 
    Government, commercial learning and development organizations, 
    industry, or federally funded research and development centers.
        ``(3) The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that--
            ``(A) not later than September 1, 2021, not less than five 
        full-time visiting professors employed under paragraph (1) are 
        from civilian colleges or universities described under 
        paragraph (2); ; and
            ``(B) not later than September 1, 2022, not less than ten 
        full-time visiting professors employed under paragraph (1) are 
        from such civilian colleges or universities.''; and
        (2) in subsection (c), by inserting ``, and with commercial 
    training providers,'' after ``military departments''.
    (d) Designation of Security Cooperation as an Acquisition 
Position.--Section 1721(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) by amending paragraph (11) to read as follows:
        ``(11) Security cooperation.''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(13) Other positions, as necessary.''.
    (e) Career Paths.--
        (1) Career path required for each acquisition workforce career 
    field.--Paragraph (4) of section 1701a(b) of title 10, United 
    States Code, is amended to read as follows:
        ``(4) develop and implement a career path, as described in 
    section 1722(a) of this title, for each career field designated by 
    the Secretary under section 1721(a) of this title as an acquisition 
    workforce career field;''.
        (2) Conforming amendments.--Section 1722(a) of such title is 
    amended--
            (A) by striking ``appropriate career paths'' and inserting 
        ``an appropriate career path''; and
            (B) by striking ``are identified'' and inserting ``is 
        identified for each acquisition workforce career field''.
        (3) Deadline for implementation of career paths.--Not later 
    than the end of the two-year period beginning on the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall carry out the 
    requirements of paragraph (4) of section 1701a(b) of title 10, 
    United States Code (as amended by paragraph (1)).
    (f) Career Fields.--
        (1) Designation of acquisition workforce career fields.--
    Section 1721(a) of such title is amended by adding at the end the 
    following new sentence: ``The Secretary shall also designate in 
    regulations those career fields in the Department of Defense that 
    are acquisition workforce career fields for purposes of this 
    chapter.''.
        (2) Clerical amendments.--(A) The heading of section 1721 of 
    such title is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 1721. Designation of acquisition positions and acquisition 
    workforce career fields''.
            (B) The item relating to such section in the table of 
        sections at the beginning of subchapter II of chapter 87 of 
        such title is amended to read as follows:

``1721. Designation of acquisition positions and acquisition workforce 
          career fields.''.

        (3)(A) The heading of subchapter II of chapter 87 of such title 
    is amended to read as follows:

 ``subchapter ii--acquisition positions and acquisition workforce career 
                                fields''.

        (B) The item relating to such subchapter in the table of 
    subchapters at the beginning of such chapter is amended to read as 
    follows:

``II. Acquisition Positions And Acquisition Workforce Career 
Fields...........................................................1721''.

        (4) Deadline for designation of career fields.--Not later than 
    the end of the six-month period beginning on the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall carry out the 
    requirements of the second sentence of section 1721(a) of title 10, 
    United States Code (as added by paragraph (1)).
    (g) Key Work Experiences.--
        (1) Development of key work experiences for each acquisition 
    workforce career field.--Section 1722b of such title is amended by 
    adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Key Work Experiences.--In carrying out subsection (b)(2), the 
Secretary shall ensure that key work experiences, in the form of 
multidisciplinary experiences, are developed for each acquisition 
workforce career field.''.
        (2) Plan for implementation of key work experiences.--Not later 
    than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
    Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
    committees a plan identifying the specific actions the Secretary 
    has taken, and is planning to take, to develop and establish key 
    work experiences for each acquisition workforce career field as 
    required by subsection (c) of section 1722b of title 10, United 
    States Code (as added by paragraph (1)). The plan shall specify the 
    percentage of the acquisition workforce, or funds available for 
    administration of the acquisition workforce on an annual basis, 
    that the Secretary will dedicate towards developing and 
    establishing such key work experiences.
    (h) Applicability of Career Path Requirements to All Members of 
Acquisition Workforce.--Section 1723(b) of such title is amended by 
striking ``the critical acquisition-related''.
    (i) Competency Development.--
        (1) In general.--Subchapter V of chapter 87 of such title is 
    amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 1765. Competency development
    ``For each acquisition workforce career field, the Secretary of 
Defense shall--
        ``(1) establish, for the civilian personnel in that career 
    field, defined proficiency standards and technical and nontechnical 
    competencies which shall be used in personnel qualification 
    assessments; and
        ``(2) assign resources to accomplish such technical and 
    nontechnical competencies.''.
        (2) The table of sections at the beginning of such subchapter 
    II is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``1765. Competency development.''.

        (3) Deadline for implementation.--Not later than the end of the 
    two-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, 
    the Secretary of Defense shall carry out the requirements of 
    section 1765 of title 10, United States Code (as added by paragraph 
    (1)).
    (j) Termination of Defense Acquisition Corps.--
        (1) The Acquisition Corps for the Department of Defense 
    referred to in section 1731(a) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    terminated.
        (2) Section 1733 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (A) by striking subsection (a); and
            (B) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (a).
        (3) Subsection (b) of section 1731 of such title is transferred 
    to the end of section 1733 of such title, as amended by paragraph 
    (2), and amended--
            (A) by striking ``Acquisition Corps'' in the heading and 
        inserting ``the Acquisition Workforce''; and
            (B) by striking ``selected for the Acquisition Corps'' and 
        inserting ``in the acquisition workforce''.
        (4) Subsection (e) of section 1732 of such title is transferred 
    to the end of section 1733 of such title, as amended by paragraphs 
    (2) and (3), redesignated as subsection (c), and amended--
            (A) by striking ``in the Acquisition Corps'' in paragraphs 
        (1) and (2) and inserting ``in critical acquisition 
        positions''; and
            (B) by striking ``serving in the Corps'' in paragraph (2) 
        and inserting ``employment''.
        (5) Sections 1731 and 1732 of such title are repealed.
        (6)(A) Section 1733 of such title, as amended by paragraphs 
    (2), (3), and (4), is redesignated as section 1731.
        (B) The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter III of 
    chapter 87 of such title is amended by striking the items relating 
    to sections 1731, 1732, and 1733 and inserting the following new 
    item:

``1731. Critical acquisition positions.''.

        (7)(A) The heading of subchapter III of chapter 87 of such 
    title is amended to read as follows:

           ``subchapter iii--critical acquisition positions''.

        (B) The item relating to such subchapter in the table of 
    subchapters at the beginning of such chapter is amended to read as 
    follows:

``III. Critical Acquisition Positions............................1731''.

        (8) Section 1723(a)(2) of such title is amended by striking 
    ``section 1733 of this title'' and inserting ``section 1731 of this 
    title''.
        (9) Section 1725 of such title is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``Defense Acquisition 
        Corps'' and inserting ``acquisition workforce''; and
            (B) in subsection (d)(2), by striking ``of the Defense 
        Acquisition Corps'' and inserting ``in the acquisition 
        workforce serving in critical acquisition positions''.
        (10) Section 1734 of such title is amended--
            (A) by striking ``of the Acquisition Corps'' in subsections 
        (e)(1) and (h) and inserting ``of the acquisition workforce''; 
        and
            (B) in subsection (g)--
                (i) by striking ``of the Acquisition Corps'' in the 
            first sentence and inserting ``of the acquisition 
            workforce'';
                (ii) by striking ``of the Corps'' and inserting ``of 
            the acquisition workforce''; and
                (iii) by striking ``of the Acquisition Corps'' in the 
            second sentence and inserting ``of the acquisition 
            workforce in critical acquisition positions''.
        (11) Section 1737 of such title is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``of the Acquisition 
        Corps'' and inserting ``of the acquisition workforce''; and
            (B) in subsection (b), by striking ``of the Corps'' and 
        inserting ``of the acquisition workforce''.
        (12) Section 1742(a)(1) of such title is amended by striking 
    ``the Acquisition Corps'' and inserting ``acquisition positions in 
    the Department of Defense''.
        (13) Section 2228(a)(4) of such title is amended by striking 
    ``under section 1733(b)(1)(C) of this title'' and inserting ``under 
    section 1731 of this title''.
        (14) Section 7016(b)(5)(B) of such title is amended by striking 
    ``under section 1733 of this title'' and inserting ``under section 
    1731 of this title''.
        (15) Section 8016(b)(4)(B) of such title is amended by striking 
    ``under section 1733 of this title'' and inserting ``under section 
    1731 of this title''.
        (16) Section 9016(b)(4)(B) of such title is amended by striking 
    ``under section 1733 of this title'' and inserting ``under section 
    1731 of this title''.
        (17) Paragraph (1) of section 317 of title 37, United States 
    Code, is amended to read as follows:
        ``(1) is a member of the acquisition workforce selected to 
    serve in, or serving in, a critical acquisition position designated 
    under section 1731 of title 10.''.
    SEC. 862. SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT AND SOFTWARE ACQUISITION TRAINING 
      AND MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS.
    (a) Establishment of Software Development and Software Acquisition 
Training and Management Programs.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through the 
    Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment and in 
    consultation with the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
    Engineering, the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and 
    Readiness, and the Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
    Defense, shall establish software development and software 
    acquisition training and management programs for all software 
    acquisition professionals, software developers, and other 
    appropriate individuals (as determined by the Secretary of 
    Defense), to earn a certification in software development and 
    software acquisition.
        (2) Program contents.--The programs established under paragraph 
    (1) shall--
            (A) develop and expand the use of specialized training 
        programs for chief information officers of the military 
        departments and the Defense Agencies, service acquisition 
        executives, program executive officers, and program managers to 
        include training on and experience in--
                (i) continuous software development; and
                (ii) acquisition pathways available to acquire 
            software;
            (B) ensure that appropriate program managers--
                (i) have demonstrated competency in current software 
            processes;
                (ii) have the skills to lead a workforce that can 
            quickly meet challenges, use software tools that prioritize 
            continuous or frequent upgrades as such tools become 
            available, take up opportunities provided by new 
            innovations, and plan software activities in short 
            iterations to learn from risks of software testing; and
                (iii) have the experience and training to delegate 
            technical oversight and execution decisions; and
            (C) include continuing education courses, exchanges with 
        private-sector organizations, and experiential training to help 
        individuals maintain skills learned through the programs.
    (b) Reports.--
        (1) Reports required.--The Secretary shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees--
            (A) not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, an initial report; and
            (B) not later than one year after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, a final report.
        (2) Contents.--Each report required under paragraph (1) shall 
    include--
            (A) the status of implementing the software development and 
        software acquisition training and management programs 
        established under subsection (a)(1);
            (B) a description of the requirements for certification, 
        including the requirements for competencies in current software 
        processes;
            (C) a description of potential career paths in software 
        development and software acquisition within the Department of 
        Defense;
            (D) an independent assessment conducted by the Defense 
        Innovation Board of the progress made on implementing the 
        programs established under subsection (a)(1); and
            (E) any recommendations for changes to existing law to 
        facilitate the implementation of the programs established under 
        subsection (a)(1).
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Program executive officer; program manager.--The terms 
    ``program executive officer'' and ``program manager'' have the 
    meanings given those terms, respectively, in section 1737 of title 
    10, United States Code.
        (2) Service acquisition executive.--The terms ``military 
    department'', ``Defense Agency'', and ``service acquisition 
    executive'' have the meanings given those terms, respectively, in 
    section 101 of title 10, United States Code.
        (3) Major defense acquisition program.--The term ``major 
    defense acquisition program'' has the meaning given in section 2430 
    of title 10, United States Code.
        (4) Defense business system.--The term ``defense business 
    system'' has the meaning given in section 2222(i)(1) of title 10, 
    United States Code.
    SEC. 863. MODIFICATION OF TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS OF DEPARTMENT OF 
      DEFENSE EMPLOYEES TO A PRIVATE-SECTOR ORGANIZATION.
    (a) Public-private Talent Exchange Program.--Section 1599g of title 
10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following 
new subsections:
    ``(i) Conflicts of Interest.--A private-sector organization that is 
temporarily assigned a member of the acquisition workforce under this 
section shall not be considered to have a conflict of interest with the 
Department of Defense solely because of participation in the program 
established under this section.
    ``(j) Funding; Use of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development 
Fund.--Funds for the expenses for the program established under this 
section may be provided from amounts in the Department of Defense 
Acquisition Workforce Development Fund. Expenses for the program 
include--
        ``(1) notwithstanding section 1705(e)(5) of this title, the 
    base salary of a civilian member of the acquisition workforce 
    assigned to a private-sector organization under this section, 
    during the period of that assignment;
        ``(2) expenses relating to assignment under this section of a 
    member of the acquisition workforce away from the member's regular 
    duty station, including expenses for travel, per diem, and lodging; 
    and
        ``(3) expenses for the administration of the program.''.
    (b) Use of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Fund.--Section 
1705(e)(1) of such title is amended by adding at the end the following 
new subparagraph:
            ``(C) Amounts in the Fund may be used to pay the expenses 
        of the public-private talent exchange program established under 
        section 1599g of this title.''.
    SEC. 864. INCENTIVES AND CONSIDERATION FOR QUALIFIED TRAINING 
      PROGRAMS.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 141 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 2409 the following new section:
``Sec. 2409a. Incentives and consideration for qualified training 
     programs
    ``(a) Incentives.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop workforce 
development investment incentives for a contractor that implements a 
qualified training program to develop the workforce of the contractor 
in a manner consistent with the needs of the Department of Defense.
    ``(b) Consideration of Qualified Training Programs.--The Secretary 
of Defense shall revise the Department of Defense Supplement to the 
Federal Acquisition Regulation to require that the system used by the 
Federal Government to monitor or record contractor past performance 
includes an analysis of the availability, quality, and effectiveness of 
a qualified training program of an offeror as part of the past 
performance rating of such offeror.
    ``(c) Qualified Training Program Defined.--The term `qualified 
training program' means any of the following:
        ``(1) A program eligible to receive funds under the Workforce 
    Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.).
        ``(2) A program eligible to receive funds under the Carl D. 
    Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2301 
    et seq.).
        ``(3) A program registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 
    (commonly known as the `National Apprenticeship Act'; Stat. 664, 
    chapter 663; 29 U.S.C. 50 et seq.).
        ``(4) Any other program determined to be a qualified training 
    program for purposes of this section, and that meets the workforce 
    needs of the Department of Defense, as determined by the Secretary 
    of Defense.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
2409 the following new item:

``2409a. Incentives and consideration for qualified training 
          programs.''.
    SEC. 865. USE OF QUALIFIED APPRENTICES BY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION 
      CONTRACTORS.
    (a) Use of Qualified Apprentices by Military Construction 
Contractors.--
        (1) In general.--Subchapter III of chapter 169 of title 10, 
    United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following 
    new section:
``Sec. 2870. Use of qualified apprentices by military construction 
    contractors
    ``(a) Certification Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
require each offeror for a contract for a military construction project 
to certify to the Secretary that, if awarded such a contract, the 
offeror will--
        ``(1) establish a goal that not less than 20 percent of the 
    total workforce employed in the performance of such a contract are 
    qualified apprentices; and
        ``(2) make a good faith effort to meet or exceed such goal.
    ``(b) Incentives.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop 
incentives for offerors for a contract for military construction 
projects to meet or exceed the goal described in subsection (a).
    ``(c) Consideration of Use of Qualified Apprentices.--The Secretary 
of Defense shall revise the Department of Defense Supplement to the 
Federal Acquisition Regulation to require that the system used by the 
Federal Government to monitor or record contractor past performance 
includes an analysis of whether the contractor has made a good faith 
effort to meet or exceed the goal described in subsection (a), 
including consideration of the actual number of qualified apprentices 
used by the contractor on the contract, as part of the past performance 
rating of such contractor.
    ``(d) Qualified Apprentice Defined.--In this section, the term 
`qualified apprentice' means an employee participating in an 
apprenticeship program that is--
        ``(1) registered with the Office of Apprenticeship of the 
    Employment Training Administration of the Department of Labor 
    pursuant to the Act of August 16, 1937 (popularly known as the 
    `National Apprenticeship Act'; 29 U.S.C. 50 et seq.);
        ``(2) registered with a State apprenticeship agency recognized 
    by such Office of Apprenticeship pursuant to such Act; or
        ``(3) determined to be a high-quality apprenticeship program by 
    industry and the Secretary of Labor.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of subchapter III of chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``2870. Use of qualified apprentices by military construction 
          contractors.''.

    (b) Applicability.--The amendments made by this section shall apply 
with respect to contracts awarded on or after the date that is 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.

                   Subtitle G--Small Business Matters

    SEC. 870. REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO CREDIT FOR CERTAIN SMALL 
      BUSINESS CONCERN SUBCONTRACTORS.
    (a) Credit for Certain Small Business Concern Subcontractors.--
Section 8(d)(16) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(d)) is 
amended to read as follows:
        ``(16) Credit for certain small business concern 
    subcontractors.--
            ``(A) In general.--For purposes of determining whether or 
        not a prime contractor has attained the percentage goals 
        specified in paragraph (6)--
                ``(i) if the subcontracting goals pertain only to a 
            single contract with a Federal agency, the prime contractor 
            may elect to receive credit for small business concerns 
            performing as first tier subcontractors or subcontractors 
            at any tier pursuant to the subcontracting plans required 
            under paragraph (6)(D) in an amount equal to the total 
            dollar value of any subcontracts awarded to such small 
            business concerns; and
                ``(ii) if the subcontracting goals pertain to more than 
            one contract with one or more Federal agencies, or to one 
            contract with more than one Federal agency, the prime 
            contractor may only receive credit for first tier 
            subcontractors that are small business concerns.
            ``(B) Collection and review of data on subcontracting 
        plans.--The head of each contracting agency shall ensure that 
        the agency--
                ``(i) collects and reports data on the extent to which 
            prime contractors of the agency meet the goals and 
            objectives set forth in subcontracting plans submitted 
            pursuant to this subsection; and
                ``(ii) periodically reviews data collected and reported 
            pursuant to clause (i) for the purpose of ensuring that 
            such contractors comply in good faith with the requirements 
            of this subsection.
            ``(C) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this paragraph 
        shall be construed to allow a Federal agency to establish a 
        goal for an number of subcontracts with a subcontractor at any 
        tier for a prime contractor otherwise eligible to receive 
        credit under this paragraph.''.
    (b) Maintenance of Records With Respect to Credit Under a 
Subcontracting Plan.--Section 8(d)(6) of the Small Business Act (15 
U.S.C. 637(d)(6)) is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (G) and (H) as subparagraphs 
    (H) and (I), respectively (and conforming the margins accordingly); 
    and
        (2) by inserting after subparagraph (F) the following new 
    subparagraph:
            ``(G) a recitation of the types of records the successful 
        offeror or bidder will maintain to demonstrate that procedures 
        have been adopted to substantiate the credit the successful 
        offeror or bidder will elect to receive under paragraph 
        (16)(A);''.
    SEC. 871. INCLUSION OF BEST IN CLASS DESIGNATIONS IN ANNUAL REPORT 
      ON SMALL BUSINESS GOALS.
    Section 15(h) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(h)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(4) Best in class small business participation reporting.--
            ``(A) Addendum.--In addition to the requirements under 
        paragraph (2) and for each best in class designation, the 
        Administrator shall include in the report required by such 
        paragraph--
                ``(i) the total amount of spending Governmentwide in 
            such designation; and
                ``(ii) the number of small business concerns awarded 
            contracts and the dollar amount of such contracts awarded 
            within each such designation to each of the following--

                    ``(I) qualified HUBZone small business concerns;
                    ``(II) small business concerns owned and controlled 
                by women;
                    ``(III) small business concerns owned and 
                controlled by service-disabled veterans; and
                    ``(IV) small business concerns owned and controlled 
                by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals.

            ``(B) Best in class defined.--The term `best in class' has 
        the meaning given such term by the Director of the Office of 
        Management and Budget.
            ``(C) Effective date.--The Administrator shall report on 
        the information described by subparagraph (A) beginning on the 
        date that such information is available in the Federal 
        Procurement Data System, the System for Award Management, or 
        any successor to such systems.''.
    SEC. 872. REAUTHORIZATION AND IMPROVEMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
      MENTOR-PROTEGE PROGRAM.
    (a) Reauthorization.--
        (1) In general.--Subsection (j) of section 831 of the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 
    10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``September 30, 2018'' 
        and inserting ``September 30, 2024''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``September 30, 2021'' 
        and inserting ``September 30, 2026''.
        (2) Program participation term.--Subsection (e)(2) of such 
    section is amended by striking ``three years'' each place such term 
    appears and inserting ``two years''.
        (3) Effective date.--The amendments made by this subsection 
    shall take effect on the date on which the Secretary of Defense 
    submits to Congress the small business strategy required under 
    section 2283 of title 10, United States Code. The Secretary of 
    Defense shall notify the Law Revision Counsel of the House of 
    Representatives of the submission of the strategy so that the Law 
    Revision Counsel may execute the amendments made by this 
    subsection.
    (b) Office of Small Business Programs Oversight.--Section 831 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 
101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (n) as subsection (o); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (m) the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(n) Establishment of Performance Goals and Periodic Reviews.--The 
Office of Small Business Programs of the Department of Defense shall--
        ``(1) establish performance goals consistent with the stated 
    purpose of the Mentor-Protege Program and outcome-based metrics to 
    measure progress in meeting those goals; and
        ``(2) submit to the congressional defense committees, not later 
    than February 1, 2020, a report on progress made toward 
    implementing these performance goals and metrics, based on periodic 
    reviews of the procedures used to approve mentor-protege 
    agreements.''.
    (c) Modification of Disadvantaged Small Business Concern 
Definition.--Paragraph (2) of section 831(o) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 
2302 note), as redesignated by subsection (b)(1), is amended in the 
matter preceding subparagraph (A) by striking ``has less than half the 
size standard corresponding to its primary North American Industry 
Classification System code'' and inserting ``is not more than the size 
standard corresponding to its primary North American Industry 
Classification System code''.
    (d) Independent Report on Program Effectiveness.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall direct the Defense Business Board to submit, not later 
than March 31, 2022, to the congressional defense committees a report 
evaluating the effectiveness of the Mentor-Protege Program established 
under section 831 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note), including 
recommendations for improving the program in terms of performance 
metrics, forms of assistance, and overall program effectiveness.
    (e) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter until September 30, 
2024, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report on the Mentor-Protege Program established 
under section 831 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) that describes--
        (1) each mentor-protege agreement entered into under such 
    section, disaggregated by the type of disadvantaged small business 
    concern (as defined in subsection (o) of such section) receiving 
    assistance pursuant to such an agreement;
        (2) the type of assistance provided to protege firms (as 
    defined in such subsection) under each such agreement;
        (3) the benefits provided to mentor firms (as defined in such 
    subsection) under each such agreement; and
        (4) the progress of protege firms under each such agreement 
    with respect to competing for Federal prime contracts and 
    subcontracts.
    SEC. 873. ACCELERATED PAYMENTS APPLICABLE TO CONTRACTS WITH CERTAIN 
      SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS UNDER THE PROMPT PAYMENT ACT.
    Section 3903(a) of title 31, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)(B), by inserting ``except as provided in 
    paragraphs (10) and (11),'' before ``30 days'';
        (2) in paragraph (8), by striking ``and'';
        (3) in paragraph (9), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting a semicolon; and
        (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(10) for a prime contractor (as defined in section 8701(5) of 
    title 41) that is a small business concern (as defined under 
    section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632)), to the 
    fullest extent permitted by law, require that the head of an agency 
    establish an accelerated payment date with a goal of 15 days after 
    a proper invoice for the amount due is received if a specific 
    payment date is not established by contract; and
        ``(11) for a prime contractor (as defined in section 8701(5) of 
    title 41) that subcontracts with a small business concern (as 
    defined under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632)), 
    to the fullest extent permitted by law, require that the head of an 
    agency establish an accelerated payment date with a goal of 15 days 
    after a proper invoice for the amount due is received if--
            ``(A) a specific payment date is not established by 
        contract; and
            ``(B) such prime contractor agrees to make payments to such 
        subcontractor in accordance with such accelerated payment date, 
        to the maximum extent practicable, without any further 
        consideration from or fees charged to such subcontractor.''.
    SEC. 874. POSTAWARD EXPLANATIONS FOR UNSUCCESSFUL OFFERORS FOR 
      CERTAIN CONTRACTS.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Federal Acquisition Regulation shall be revised to require 
that with respect to an offer for a task order or delivery order in an 
amount greater than the simplified acquisition threshold (as defined in 
section 134 of title 41, United States Code) and less than or equal to 
$5,500,000 issued under an indefinite delivery-indefinite quantity 
contract, the contracting officer for such contract shall, upon written 
request from an unsuccessful offeror, provide a brief explanation as to 
why such offeror was unsuccessful that includes a summary of the 
rationale for the award and an evaluation of the significant weak or 
deficient factors in the offeror's offer.
    SEC. 875. SMALL BUSINESS CONTRACTING CREDIT FOR SUBCONTRACTORS THAT 
      ARE PUERTO RICO BUSINESSES OR COVERED TERRITORY BUSINESSES.
    Section 15(x) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(x)(1)) is 
amended--
        (1) in the subsection heading, by adding ``and Covered 
    Territory Businesses'' after ``Puerto Rico Businesses'';
        (2) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) by inserting ``or a covered territory business, or a 
        prime contractor awards a subcontract (at any tier) to a 
        subcontractor that is a Puerto Rico business or a covered 
        territory business,'' after ``Puerto Rico business'';
            (B) by inserting ``or subcontract'' after ``the contract''; 
        and
            (C) by striking ``subsection (g)(1)(A)(i)'' and inserting 
        ``subsection (g)(1)(A)''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) Covered territory business defined.--In this subsection, 
    the term `covered territory business' means a small business 
    concern that has its principal office located in one of the 
    following:
            ``(A) The United States Virgin Islands.
            ``(B) American Samoa.
            ``(C) Guam.
            ``(D) The Northern Mariana Islands.''.
    SEC. 876. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT REGARDING TREATMENT OF CERTAIN 
      SURVIVING SPOUSES UNDER THE DEFINITION OF SMALL BUSINESS CONCERN 
      OWNED AND CONTROLLED BY SERVICE-DISABLED VETERANS.
    Effective on the date specified in subsection (e) of section 1832 
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public 
Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2660), section 3(q)(2) of the Small Business Act 
(15 U.S.C. 632(q)) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (C)(i)(II), by striking ``rated as 100 
    percent'' and all that follows through ``service-connected 
    disability''; and
        (2) by amending subparagraph (C)(ii)(III) to read as follows:
                ``(III) the date that--

                    ``(aa) in the case of a surviving spouse of a 
                veteran with a service-connected disability rated as 
                100 percent disabling or who dies as a result of a 
                service-connected disability, is 10 years after the 
                date of the death of the veteran; or
                    ``(bb) in the case of a surviving spouse of a 
                veteran with a service-connected disability rated as 
                less than 100 percent disabling who does not die as a 
                result of a service-connected disability, is 3 years 
                after the date of the death of the veteran.''.

    SEC. 877. EXTENSION OF LOAN ASSISTANCE AND DEFERRAL ELIGIBILITY TO 
      RESERVISTS AND MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL GUARD BEYOND PERIODS OF 
      MILITARY CONFLICT.
    (a) Small Business Act Amendments.--Section 7 of the Small Business 
Act (15 U.S.C. 636) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)(3)--
            (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                (i) by striking clause (ii);
                (ii) by redesignating clause (i) as clause (ii);
                (iii) by inserting before clause (ii), as so 
            redesignated, the following:
            ``(i) the term `active service' has the meaning given that 
        term in section 101(d)(3) of title 10, United States Code;''; 
        and
                (iv) in clause (ii), as so redesignated, by adding 
            ``and'' at the end;
            (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``being ordered to 
        active military duty during a period of military conflict'' and 
        inserting ``being ordered to perform active service for a 
        period of more than 30 consecutive days'';
            (C) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``active duty'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``active service''; and
            (D) in subparagraph (G)(ii)(II), by striking ``active 
        duty'' and inserting ``active service''; and
        (2) in subsection (n)--
            (A) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Active Duty'' 
        and inserting ``Active Service'';
            (B) in paragraph (1)--
                (i) by striking subparagraph (C);
                (ii) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as 
            subparagraphs (B) and (C), respectively;
                (iii) by inserting before subparagraph (B), as so 
            redesignated, the following:
            ``(A) Active service.--The term `active service' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 101(d)(3) of title 10, 
        United States Code.'';
                (iv) in subparagraph (B), as so redesignated, by 
            striking ``ordered to active duty during a period of 
            military conflict'' and inserting ``ordered to perform 
            active service for a period of more than 30 consecutive 
            days''; and
                (v) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``active duty'' 
            each place it appears and inserting ``active service''; and
            (C) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking ``active duty'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``active service''.
    (b) Applicability.--The amendments made by subsection (a)(1) shall 
apply to an economic injury suffered or likely to be suffered as the 
result of an essential employee being ordered to perform active service 
(as defined in section 101(d)(3) of title 10, United States Code) for a 
period of more than 30 consecutive days who is discharged or released 
from such active service on or after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (c) Semiannual Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, and semiannually thereafter, the President shall 
submit to the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship and the 
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Small 
Business and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives a report on the number of loans made under the Military 
Reservist Economic Injury Disaster Loan program and the dollar volume 
of those loans. The report shall contain the subsidy rate of the 
disaster loan program as authorized under section 7(b) of the Small 
Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(b)) with the loans made under the Military 
Reservist Economic Injury Disaster Loan program and without those loans 
included.
    (d) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--Section 8(l) of the Small 
Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(l)) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``The Administration'' and inserting the 
    following:
        ``(1) In general.--The Administration'';
        (2) by striking ``(as defined in section 7(n)(1))''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(2) Definition of period of military conflict.--In this 
    subsection, the term `period of military conflict' means--
            ``(A) a period of war declared by the Congress;
            ``(B) a period of national emergency declared by the 
        Congress or by the President; or
            ``(C) a period of a contingency operation, as defined in 
        section 101(a) of title 10, United States Code.''.
    SEC. 878. MODIFICATION TO THE DEFENSE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
      RAPID INNOVATION PROGRAM.
    (a) Types of Awards; Award Size; Limitation on Certain Awards.--
Section 2359a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(1), by inserting ``phase II Small 
    Business Technology Transfer Program projects,'' after 
    ``projects,'';
        (2) in subsection (b)--
            (A) in paragraph (3), by striking ``$3,000,000'' and all 
        that follows through the period at the end and inserting 
        ``$6,000,000.''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(7) A preference under the program for funding small business 
    concerns.''; and
        (3) in subsection (d)--
            (A) by striking ``Subject to'' and inserting ``(1) Subject 
        to'';
            (B) in paragraph (1), as so designated, by inserting ``and 
        to the limitation under paragraph (2)'' after ``for such 
        purpose''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(2) During any fiscal year, the total amount of awards in an 
    amount greater than $3,000,000 made under the program established 
    under subsection (a) may not exceed 25 percent of the amount made 
    available to carry out such program during such fiscal year.''.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the program established 
under section 2359a(a) of title 10, United States Code (commonly known 
as the ``Defense Research and Development Rapid Innovation Program''), 
which shall include--
        (1) with respect to the two fiscal years preceding the 
    submission of the report--
            (A) a description of the total number of proposals funded 
        under the program;
            (B) the percent of funds made available under the program 
        for phase II Small Business Innovation Research Program 
        projects (as defined under section 9 of the Small Business Act 
        (15 U.S.C. 638)); and
            (C) a list of phase II Small Business Innovation Research 
        Program projects that received funding under the program that 
        were included in major defense acquisition programs (as defined 
        in section 2430 of title 10, United States Code) and other 
        defense acquisition programs that meet critical national 
        security needs; and
        (2) an assessment on the effectiveness of the program in 
    stimulating innovative technologies, reducing acquisition or 
    lifecycle costs, addressing technical risk, and improving the 
    timeliness and thoroughness of test and evaluation outcomes.
    SEC. 879. ALIGNMENT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SMALL BUSINESS 
      INNOVATION RESEARCH PROGRAM AND SMALL BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY 
      TRANSFER PROGRAM WITH THE NATIONAL DEFENSE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
      STRATEGY.
    The Secretary of Defense and Secretaries of the military 
departments shall, to the extent practicable, align the research topics 
selected for activities conducted under the Small Business Innovation 
Research Program and Small Business Technology Transfer Program (as 
defined under section 9 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638)) with 
the National Defense Science and Technology Strategy developed under 
section 218 of the John. S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1679).
    SEC. 880. ASSISTANCE FOR SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS PARTICIPATING IN 
      THE SBIR AND STTR PROGRAMS.
    (a) Definition of Senior Procurement Executive.--Section 9(e) of 
the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(e)) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (12)(B), by striking ``and'' at the end;
        (2) in paragraph (13)(B), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting ``; and''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(14) the term `senior procurement executive' means an 
    official designated under section 1702(c) of title 41, United 
    States Code, as the senior procurement executive of a Federal 
    agency participating in a SBIR or STTR program.''.
    (b) Inclusion of Senior Procurement Executives in SBIR and STTR.--
        (1) In general.--Section 9(b) of the Small Business Act (15 
    U.S.C. 638(b)) is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (8), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (B) in paragraph (9), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(10) to consult, where appropriate, with personnel from the 
    relevant Federal agency to assist small business concerns 
    participating in a SBIR or STTR program with commercializing 
    research developed under such a program before such small business 
    concern is awarded a contract from such Federal agency.''.
        (2) Technical amendment.--Section 9(b)(3) of the Small Business 
    Act (15 U.S.C. 638(b)(3)) is amended by striking ``and'' at the 
    end.
    (c) Modifications Relating to Procurement Center Representatives 
and Other Acquisition Personnel.--
        (1) SBIR amendment.--Section 9(j) of the Small Business Act (15 
    U.S.C. 638(j)) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
    paragraph:
        ``(4) Modifications relating to procurement center 
    representatives.--Upon the enactment of this paragraph, the 
    Administrator shall modify the policy directives issued pursuant to 
    this subsection to require procurement center representatives (as 
    described in section 15(l)) to consult with the appropriate 
    personnel from the relevant Federal agency, to assist small 
    business concerns participating in the SBIR program, particularly 
    in Phase III.''.
        (2) STTR amendment.--Section 9(p)(2) of the Small Business Act 
    (15 U.S.C. 638(p)(2)) is amended--
            (A) in subparagraph (E)(ii), by striking ``and'' at the 
        end;
            (B) in subparagraph (F), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(G) procedures to ensure that procurement center 
        representatives (as described in section 15(l))--
                ``(i) consult with the appropriate personnel from the 
            relevant Federal agency, to assist small business concerns 
            participating in the STTR program, particularly in Phase 
            III;
                ``(ii) provide technical assistance to such concerns to 
            submit a bid for an award of a Federal contract; and
                ``(iii) consult with the appropriate personnel from the 
            relevant Federal agency in providing the assistance 
            described in clause (i).''.
    (d) Amendment to Duties of Procurement Center Representatives.--
Section 15(l)(2) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(l)(2)) is 
amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (I), by striking ``and'' at the end;
        (2) by redesignating subparagraph (J) as subparagraph (K); and
        (3) by inserting after subparagraph (I) the following new 
    subparagraph:
            ``(J) consult with the appropriate personnel from the 
        relevant Federal agency, to assist small business concerns 
        participating in a SBIR or STTR program under section 9 with 
        Phase III;''.
    (e) Amendment to the Duties of the Director of Small and 
Disadvantaged Business Utilization for Federal Agencies.--Section 15(k) 
of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(k)) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (19), by striking ``and'' at the end;
        (2) in paragraph (20), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting a semicolon; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(21) shall consult with the appropriate personnel from the 
    relevant Federal agency to assist small business concerns 
    participating in a SBIR or STTR program under section 9 with 
    researching applicable solicitations for the award of a Federal 
    contract (particularly with the Federal agency that has a funding 
    agreement, as defined under section 9, with the concern) to market 
    the research developed by such concern under such SBIR or STTR 
    program.''.
    SEC. 881. CYBERSECURITY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR SBIR AND STTR 
      PROGRAMS.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may enter into an 
agreement with 1 or more vendors selected under section 9(q)(2) of the 
Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(q)(2)) to provide small business 
concerns engaged in SBIR or STTR projects with cybersecurity technical 
assistance, such as access to a network of cybersecurity experts and 
engineers engaged in designing and implementing cybersecurity 
practices.
    (b) Amounts.--In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary of 
Defense may provide the amounts described under section 9(q)(3) of such 
Act (15 U.S.C. 638(q)(3)) to a recipient that meets the eligibility 
requirements under the such paragraph, if the recipient requests to 
seek cybersecurity technical assistance from an individual or entity 
other than a vendor selected as described in subsection (a).
    SEC. 882. FUNDING FOR DEFENSE RESEARCH ACTIVITIES OF SMALL BUSINESS 
      CONCERNS.
    Not later than March 1, 2020, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
to the congressional defense committees a report on funds or other 
assistance made available to small business concerns (as defined under 
section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632)) as prime 
contractors for research, development, test, and evaluation activities, 
in each of fiscal years 2017, 2018, and 2019 under any--
        (1) research, development, test, and evaluation programs of the 
    Department of Defense;
        (2) Small Business Innovation Research programs of the 
    Department of Defense;
        (3) Small Business Technology Transfer programs of the 
    Department of Defense; and
        (4) other relevant activities of the Department of Defense.
    SEC. 883. MODIFICATIONS TO BUDGET DISPLAY REQUIREMENTS FOR THE 
      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SMALL BUSINESS INNOVATION RESEARCH PROGRAM 
      AND SMALL BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER PROGRAM.
    Section 857 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1891) is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) 
        and the'' before ``Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Engineering''; and
            (B) by striking ``a budget display'' and inserting ``one or 
        more budget displays'';
        (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``The budget display'' and 
    inserting ``The budget displays''; and
        (3) in subsection (d), by striking ``The budget display'' and 
    inserting ``The budget displays''.
    SEC. 884. PILOT PROGRAM FOR DOMESTIC INVESTMENT UNDER THE SBIR 
      PROGRAM.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act and subject to subsection (b), the Secretary of 
Defense shall establish and administer a program to be known as the 
``Domestic Investment Pilot Program'' under which the Secretary and the 
service acquisition executive for each military department may make a 
SBIR award under section 9(dd) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
638) to a small business concern without providing the written 
determination described under paragraph (2) of such section 9(dd) if 
such concern is--
        (1) exclusively owned by multiple United States-owned venture 
    capital operating companies, hedge funds, or private equity firms, 
    or
        (2) majority-owned by multiple United States-owned venture 
    capital operating companies, hedge funds, or private equity firms, 
    if the minority foreign ownership of such concern is limited to 
    members of the national technology and industrial base as defined 
    under section 2500 of title 10, United States Code.
    (b) Limitation.--During any fiscal year, the aggregate amount of 
awards made under the Domestic Investment Pilot Program shall not 
exceed an amount equal to 10 percent of the total amount that the 
Secretary of Defense may award under section 9 of the Small Business 
Act (15 U.S.C. 638) during such fiscal year.
    (c) Evaluation Criteria.--In carrying out the Domestic Investment 
Pilot Program, the Secretary of Defense may not use investment of 
venture capital or investment from hedge funds or private equity firms 
as a criterion for the award of contracts under the SBIR program or 
STTR program.
    (d) Annual Reporting.--The Secretary of Defense shall include as 
part of each annual report required under section 9(b)(7) of the Small 
Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(b)(7)) information on the implementation of 
the Domestic Investment Pilot Program with respect to the year covered 
by the report, including--
        (1) the number of applications for participation received from 
    small business concerns;
        (2) the number of awards made to small business concerns, 
    including an identification of such concerns;
        (3) the extent to which a small business concern participant is 
    foreign-owned, including an identification of the foreign owners; 
    and
        (4) an assessment of the effect of the Domestic Investment 
    Pilot Program on--
            (A) inducing additional venture capital, hedge fund, or 
        private equity funding of research as defined in section 
        9(e)(5) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(e)(5));
            (B) substantially contributing to the mission of the 
        Department of Defense; and
            (C) otherwise fulfilling the capital needs of small 
        business concerns for additional financing for SBIR projects.
    (e) Notification.--The Secretary of Defense shall notify the Small 
Business Administration of an award made under the Domestic Investment 
Pilot Program not later than 30 days after such award is made.
    (f) Termination.--The Domestic Investment Pilot Program established 
under this section shall terminate on September 30, 2022.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Military department; service acquisition executive.--The 
    terms ``military department'' and ``service acquisition executive'' 
    have the meanings given those terms, respectively, in section 101 
    of title 10, United States Code.
        (2) SBIR; sttr.--The terms ``SBIR'' and ``STTR'' have the 
    meanings given those terms, respectively, in section 9(e) of the 
    Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(e)).
        (3) Small business act definitions.--The terms ``small business 
    concern'', ``venture capital operating company'', ``hedge fund'', 
    and ``private equity firm'' have the meanings given those terms, 
    respectively, in section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
    632).

                       Subtitle H--Other Matters

    SEC. 885. REVIEW OF GUIDANCE TO CONTRACTORS ON NONDISCRIMINATION ON 
      THE BASIS OF SEX.
    (a) Review.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition 
and Sustainment, serving as the senior procurement executive for the 
Department of Defense pursuant to section 133b(b)(4)(B) of title 10, 
United States Code, shall conduct a review of the implementation of the 
requirement for Government contracting agencies under Executive Order 
11246 (42 U.S.C. 2000e note) relating to expectations of contractors 
and subcontractors to ensure nondiscrimination on the basis of sex.
    (b) Elements.--The review required under subsection (a) shall, at a 
minimum, consider--
        (1) existing contracting processes and tools for oversight of 
    contracts, including contractor responsibility determinations and 
    documentation of performance; and
        (2) the extent to which best practices for contractors and 
    subcontractors identified in the appendix to part 60-20 of title 41 
    of the Code of Federal Regulations, such as establishing and 
    implementing procedures for handling and resolving complaints about 
    harassment and intimidation based on sex, have been incorporated in 
    Department policies and procedures.
    (c) Updated Training Guidance.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of the completion of the review required under subsection (a), the 
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall update 
any relevant training guidance for the acquisition workforce to account 
for the conclusions of the review.
    (d) Briefing Required.--Not later than December 15, 2020, the 
Secretary of Defense shall brief the congressional defense committees 
on the review required under subsection (a), which shall include any 
updates to training guidance or contracting procedures resulting from 
the review.
    SEC. 886. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON CONTRACTOR VIOLATIONS OF 
      CERTAIN LABOR LAWS.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit a report 
to Congress on the number of contractors--
        (1) that performed a contract with the Department of Defense 
    during the five-year period preceding the date of the enactment of 
    this Act; and
        (2) that have been found by the Department of Labor to have 
    committed willful or repeat violations of the Occupational Safety 
    and Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 651 et seq.) or the Fair Labor 
    Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.), and the nature of 
    the violations committed.
    SEC. 887. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON CONTINGENCY CONTRACTING.
    Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the use of contractors to 
perform work supporting contingency operations, including the 
logistical support for such operations, since January 1, 2009. Such 
report shall include--
        (1) an evaluation of the nature and extent to which the 
    Department of Defense has used contractors to perform such work, 
    including the type of operation or exercise, the functions 
    performed by a contractor, the place of performance, and contract 
    obligations;
        (2) an evaluation of the processes for tracking and reporting 
    on the use of such contractors;
        (3) an evaluation of the extent to which recommendations made 
    by the Wartime Contracting Commission established in section 841 of 
    the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public 
    Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 230) have been implemented in policy, 
    guidance, education and training, as appropriate; and
        (4) any other issues the Comptroller General determines to be 
    appropriate.
    SEC. 888. POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR CONTRACTORS TO REPORT GROSS 
      VIOLATIONS OF INTERNATIONALLY RECOGNIZED HUMAN RIGHTS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall update Department 
of Defense policy and guidance and the Department of Defense Supplement 
to the Federal Acquisition Regulation to provide specific guidance to 
Department of Defense employees and contractors performing a Department 
of Defense contract that supports United States Armed Forces deployed 
outside of the United States on monitoring and reporting allegations of 
gross violations of internationally recognized human rights.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence 
of the Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees a report that describes--
        (1) the policies and procedures in place to obtain information 
    about possible cases of gross violations of internationally 
    recognized human rights from Department of Defense contractors 
    described in subsection (a), including the methods for tracking 
    cases; and
        (2) the resources needed to investigate reports made pursuant 
    to subsection (a).
    (c) Form of Report.--The report required by subsection (b) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--the term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the congressional defense committees; and
            (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
        the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives.
        (2) Gross violations of internationally recognized human 
    rights.--The term ``gross violations of internationally recognized 
    human rights'' has the meaning given such term in subsection (d)(1) 
    of section 502B of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
    2304).
    SEC. 889. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON OVERSIGHT OF CONTRACTORS 
      PROVIDING PRIVATE SECURITY FUNCTIONS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
efforts of the Secretary of Defense to improve the oversight of 
contractors providing private security functions to fulfill non-combat 
requirements for security in contingency operations, humanitarian 
operations, peacekeeping operations, or other similar operations or 
exercises since January 1, 2009.
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
evaluate--
        (1) the nature and extent to which the Department of Defense 
    has used contractors to perform private security functions 
    described under subsection (a), including the type of operation or 
    exercise, the functions performed by a contractor, the place of 
    performance, and contract obligations;
        (2) the processes for tracking and reporting on the use of such 
    contractors;
        (3) changes to law, regulation, and policy on the use of such 
    contractors and how the Secretary has implemented such changes, 
    including--
            (A) the Montreux Document on Pertinent International Legal 
        Obligations and Good Practices for States Related to Operations 
        of Private Military and Security Companies During Armed 
        Conflict (published on May 2, 2011);
            (B) using standards for such contractors issued by the 
        American National Standards Institute and the International 
        Organization for Standardization; and
            (C) using other associated accreditation and certification 
        standards for such contractors; and
        (4) the oversight outcomes of the Department due to 
    implementing the processes described in paragraph (2) and the 
    changes described in paragraph (3), including--
            (A) progress with certification and accreditation of 
        companies;
            (B) the use of the maturity model of the Department to 
        assess contractors; and
            (C) the nature and extent of referrals for suspension and 
        debarment and the number of suspensions and debarments that 
        have resulted from such referrals.
    (c) Form of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, to the maximum extent possible, but may 
contain a classified annex, if necessary.
    SEC. 890. PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH PERSONS THAT HAVE 
      BUSINESS OPERATIONS WITH THE MADURO REGIME.
    (a) Prohibition.--Except as provided under subsections (c), (d), 
and (e), the Department of Defense may not enter into a contract for 
the procurement of goods or services with any person that has business 
operations with an authority of the Government of Venezuela that is not 
recognized as the legitimate Government of Venezuela by the United 
States Government.
    (b) Exceptions.--
        (1) In general.--The prohibition under subsection (a) does not 
    apply to a contract that the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary 
    of State jointly determine--
            (A) is necessary--
                (i) for purposes of providing humanitarian assistance 
            to the people of Venezuela;
                (ii) for purposes of providing disaster relief and 
            other urgent life-saving measures; or
                (iii) to carry out noncombatant evacuations; or
            (B) is vital to the national security interests of the 
        United States.
        (2) Notification requirement.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
    notify the congressional defense committees, the Committee on 
    Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the Committee 
    on Foreign Relations of the Senate of any contract entered into on 
    the basis of an exception provided for under paragraph (1).
    (c) Office of Foreign Assets Control Licenses.--The prohibition in 
subsection (a) shall not apply to a person that has a valid license to 
operate in Venezuela issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of 
the Department of the Treasury.
    (d) American Diplomatic Mission in Venezuela.--The prohibition in 
subsection (a) shall not apply to contracts related to the operation 
and maintenance of the United States Government's consular offices and 
diplomatic posts in Venezuela.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Business operations.--The term ``business operations'' 
    means engaging in commerce in any form, including acquiring, 
    developing, maintaining, owning, selling, possessing, leasing, or 
    operating equipment, facilities, personnel, products, services, 
    personal property, real property, or any other apparatus of 
    business or commerce.
        (2) Government of venezuela.--The term ``Government of 
    Venezuela'' includes the government of any political subdivision of 
    Venezuela, and any agency or instrumentality of the Government of 
    Venezuela. For purposes of this paragraph, the term ``agency or 
    instrumentality of the Government of Venezuela'' means an agency or 
    instrumentality of a foreign state as defined in section 1603(b) of 
    title 28, United States Code, with each reference in such section 
    to ``a foreign state'' deemed to be a reference to ``Venezuela''.
        (3) Person.--The term ``person'' means--
            (A) a natural person, corporation, company, business 
        association, partnership, society, trust, or any other 
        nongovernmental entity, organization, or group;
            (B) any governmental entity or instrumentality of a 
        government, including a multilateral development institution 
        (as defined in section 1701(c)(3) of the International 
        Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262r(c)(3))); and
            (C) any successor, subunit, parent entity, or subsidiary 
        of, or any entity under common ownership or control with, any 
        entity described in subparagraph (A) or (B).
    (f) Applicability.--This section shall apply with respect to any 
contract entered into on or after the date of the enactment of this 
section.
    SEC. 891. REPORT ON THE COMBATING TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS 
      INITIATIVE.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report containing an analysis of the progress of the 
Department of Defense in implementing the Combating Trafficking in 
Persons initiative described in Department of Defense Instruction 
2200.01 (published February 2007; revised on June 21, 2019).
    SEC. 892. IMPROVED MANAGEMENT OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND 
      CYBERSPACE INVESTMENTS.
    (a) Improved Management.--
        (1) In general.--The Chief Information Officer of the 
    Department of Defense shall work with the Chief Data Officer of the 
    Department of Defense to optimize the Department's process for 
    accounting for, managing, and reporting its information technology 
    and cyberspace investments. The optimization should include 
    alternative methods of presenting budget justification materials to 
    the public and congressional staff to more accurately communicate 
    when, how, and with what frequency capability is delivered to end 
    users, in accordance with best practices for managing and reporting 
    on information technology investments.
        (2) Briefing.--Not later than February 3, 2020, the Chief 
    Information Officer of the Department of Defense shall brief the 
    congressional defense committees on the process optimization 
    undertaken pursuant to paragraph (1), including any recommendations 
    for legislation.
    (b) Delivery of Information Technology Budget.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees the 
Department of Defense budget request for information technology not 
later than 15 days after the submittal to Congress of the budget of the 
President for a fiscal year pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, 
United States Code.
    SEC. 893. MODIFICATION TO REQUIREMENTS FOR PURCHASE OF COMMERCIAL 
      LEASING SERVICES PURSUANT TO MULTIPLE AWARD CONTRACTS.
    (a) Repeal.--Section 877 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act For Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 
1907; 41 U.S.C. 3302 note) is repealed.
    (b) Exemption for Commercial Leasing Services.--
        (1) In general.--Section 3302 of title 41, United States Code, 
    is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Commercial Leasing Services.--The regulations required by 
subsection (b) shall not apply to individual purchases for commercial 
leasing services that are made on a no cost basis and made under a 
multiple award contract awarded in accordance with the requirements for 
full and open competition.''.
        (2) Termination.--Effective December 31, 2025, subsection (f) 
    of section 3302 of title 41, United States Code, as added by 
    paragraph (1), is repealed.
    (c) Audit.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall--
        (1) conduct an audit not later than the last day of fiscal year 
    2021, 2023, and 2025 analyzing the National Broker Contract program 
    of the General Services Administration to determine--
            (A) whether brokers selected under the program provide 
        lower lease rental rates than rates negotiated by employees of 
        the General Services Administration; and
            (B) the impact of the program on the length of time of 
        lease procurements;
        (2) conduct a review of whether the application of section 863 
    of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
    Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat.4547) resulted in rental 
    cost savings for the Government during the years in which such 
    section was applicable; and
        (3) not later than September 30, 2022, and September 30, 2024, 
    submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the 
    House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and 
    Public Works of the Senate a report that--
            (A) summarizes the results of the most recent audit 
        required under paragraph (1) and the review required by 
        paragraph (2);
            (B) includes an assessment of whether the National Broker 
        Contract program provides greater efficiencies and savings than 
        the use of employees of the General Services Administration; 
        and
            (C) includes recommendations for improving General Services 
        Administration lease procurements.

      TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

   Subtitle A--Office of the Secretary of Defense and Related Matters

Sec. 901. Headquarters activities of the Department of Defense matters.
Sec. 902. Clarifying the roles and responsibilities of the Under 
          Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment and the 
          Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.
Sec. 903. Return to Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
          Defense of responsibility for business systems and related 
          matters.
Sec. 904. Assessments of responsibilities and authorities of the Chief 
          Management Officer of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 905. Senior Military Advisor for Cyber Policy and Deputy Principal 
          Cyber Advisor.
Sec. 906. Exclusion from limitations on personnel in the Office of the 
          Secretary of Defense and Department of Defense headquarters of 
          fellows appointed under the John S. McCain Defense Fellows 
          Program.

 Subtitle B--Organization and Management of Other Department of Defense 
                          Offices and Elements

Sec. 911. Codification of Assistant Secretaries for Energy, 
          Installations, and Environment of the Army, Navy, and Air 
          Force.

  Subtitle C--Other Department of Defense Organization and Management 
                                 Matters

Sec. 921. Prohibition on ownership or trading of stocks in certain 
          companies by certain officials of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 922. Limitation on consolidation of Defense Media Activity.
Sec. 923. Report on resources to implement the civilian casualty policy 
          of the Department of Defense.

                  Subtitle D--United States Space Force

Sec. 951. Short title.
Sec. 952. The Space Force.
Sec. 953. Chief of Space Operations.
Sec. 954. Space Force Acquisition Council.
Sec. 955. Assistant Secretary of Defense for Space Policy.
Sec. 956. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space Acquisition and 
          Integration.
Sec. 957. Service Acquisition Executive of the Department of the Air 
          Force for Space Systems and Programs.
Sec. 958. Conforming amendments and clarification of authorities.
Sec. 959. Effects on military installations.
Sec. 960. Availability of funds.
Sec. 961. Implementation.

   Subtitle A--Office of the Secretary of Defense and Related Matters

    SEC. 901. HEADQUARTERS ACTIVITIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
      MATTERS.
    (a) Modification of Limitations on Number of Personnel in OSD and 
Other DoD Headquarters.--
        (1) OSD.--Section 143 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended--
            (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``3,767'' and inserting 
        ``4,300''; and
            (B) in subsection (b), by striking ``, civilian, and 
        detailed personnel'' and inserting ``and civilian personnel''.
        (2) Joint staff.--
            (A) In general.--Section 155(h)(1) of such title is amended 
        by striking ``2,069'' and inserting ``2,250''.
            (B) Effective date.--The amendment made by subparagraph (A) 
        shall take effect on December 31, 2019, immediately after the 
        coming into effect of the amendment made by section 903(b) of 
        the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
        (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2344), to which such amendments 
        relate
        (3) Office of secretary of the army.--Section 7014(f) of title 
    10, United States Code, is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``3,105'' and inserting 
        ``3,250''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``1,865'' and inserting 
        ``1,900''.
        (4) Office of secretary of the navy.--Section 8014(f) of such 
    title is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``2,866'' and inserting 
        ``3,150''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``1,720'' and inserting 
        ``1,800''.
        (5) Office of secretary of the air force.--Section 9014(f) of 
    such title is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``2,639'' and inserting 
        ``2,750''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``1,585'' and inserting 
        ``1,650''.
    (b) Sunset of Reduction in Funding for DoD Headquarters, 
Administrative, and Support Activities.--Section 346 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 
U.S.C. 111 note) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(d) Sunset.--No action is required under this section with 
respect to any fiscal year after fiscal year 2019.''.
    SEC. 902. CLARIFYING THE ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE UNDER 
      SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR ACQUISITION AND SUSTAINMENT AND THE 
      UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR RESEARCH AND ENGINEERING.
    The laws of the United States are amended as follows:
        (1) Section 129a(c)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (2) Section 133a(b)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended--
            (A) by striking ``prototyping,'' and inserting 
        ``appropriate prototyping activities,''; and
            (B) by striking ``, including the allocation of resources 
        for defense research and engineering,''.
        (3) Section 134(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
    by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics,'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, the Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Research and Engineering,''.
        (4) Section 139 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (A) in subsection (b), by striking ``and the Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
        Logistics'' each place it appears and inserting ``, the Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, and the 
        Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering''; and
            (B) in subsections (c) and (h), by striking ``Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
        Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Research and Engineering,''.
        (5) Section 139a(d)(6) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, the Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Research and Engineering,''.
        (6) Section 171(a) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended--
            (A) in paragraph (3), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment'';
            (B) by redesignating paragraphs (9) through (13) as 
        paragraphs (12) through (16);
            (C) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through (8) as 
        paragraphs (5) through (9), respectively;
            (D) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
        paragraph:
        ``(4) the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
    Engineering;''; and
            (E) by inserting after paragraph (9), as redesignated, the 
        following new paragraphs:
        ``(10) the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
    Engineering;
        ``(11) the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition 
    and Sustainment;''.
        (7) Subsection (d)(1) of section 181 of title 10, United States 
    Code, is amended--
            (A) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment'';
            (B) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following new 
        subparagraph:
            ``(D) the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Engineering.''; and
            (C) by redesignating paragraphs (D) through (G) as 
        paragraphs (E) through (H), respectively.
        (8) Subsection (b)(2) of section 393 of title 10, United States 
    Code, is amended--
            (A) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment'';
            (B) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following new 
        subparagraph:
            ``(C) the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Engineering.''; and
            (C) by redesignating subparagraphs (C) through (E) as 
        subparagraphs (D) through (F).
        (9) Section 1111 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1032; 10 U.S.C. 1701 
    note) is amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' each place such term 
    appears and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition 
    and Sustainment''.
        (10) Section 231 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 45; 10 U.S.C. 1701 
    note) is amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (11) Section 1702 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (A) in the section heading, by striking ``under secretary 
        of defense for acquisition, technology, and logistics'' and 
        inserting ``under secretary of defense for acquisition and 
        sustainment''; and
            (B) by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (12) Section 807(a) of the Bob Stump National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-314; 116 
    Stat. 2608; 10 U.S.C. 1702 note) is amended by striking ``Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' 
    and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
    Sustainment''.
        (13) Section 1705 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (A) in subsection (c), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment'';
            (B) in subsection (e)(3), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''; and
            (C) in subsection (g)(2)(B), by striking ``Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''.
        (14) Section 803(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 1825; 10 U.S.C. 
    1705 note) is amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (15) Section 1722 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''; and
            (B) in subsection (b)(2)(B), by striking ``Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''.
        (16) Section 1722a of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended--
            (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''; and
            (B) in subsection (e), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''.
        (17) Section 1722b(a) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (18) Section 1723 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a)(3), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''; and
            (B) in subsection (b), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''.
        (19) Section 1725(e)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (20) Section 1735(c)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (21) Section 1737(c) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (22) Section 1741(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (23) Section 1746(a) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (24) Section 1748 of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
    by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (25) Section 2222 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (A) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''; and
            (B) in subsection (f)(2)(B)(i), by striking ``Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
        Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (26) Section 217(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 770; 10 U.S.C. 
    2222 note) is amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment and Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering''.
        (27) Section 882(b) of the Ike Skelton National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 128 
    Stat. 4308; 10 U.S.C. 2222 note) is amended by striking ``Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' 
    and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
    Sustainment''.
        (28) Section 2272 of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
    by striking ``Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research and 
    Engineering'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Research and Engineering''.
        (29) Section 2275(a) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (30) Section 2279(d) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (31) Section 2279b of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended--
            (A) in subsection (b)--
                (i) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (10) as 
            paragraphs (4) through (11), respectively;
                (ii) by striking paragraph (2); and
                (iii) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following 
            new paragraphs:
        ``(2) The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
    Engineering.
        ``(3) The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
    Sustainment.''; and
            (B) in subsection (c) by striking ``the Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Engineering, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment,''.
        (32) Section 898(a)(2) of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2000; 10 
    U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended by striking ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' each place 
    such term appears and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (33) Section 804 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 726; 10 U.S.C. 2302 
    note) is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''; and
            (B) in subsection (d)(1)(A), by striking ``Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Deputy Secretary of Defense''.
        (34) Section 852 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' 
    McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
    (Public Law 113-291; 130 Stat. 3458; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is 
    amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (35) Section 806 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1487; 10 U.S.C. 2302 
    note) is amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' each place such term 
    appears and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition 
    and Sustainment''.
        (36) Section 843 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1487; 10 U.S.C. 2302 
    note) is amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (37) Section 254(b) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 
    Stat. 4402; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended by striking ``Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' 
    and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
    Sustainment''.
        (38) Section 802(d) of the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Public Law 108-375; 118 
    Stat. 2004; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended by striking ``Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' 
    each place such term appears and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (39) Section 2304 of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
    by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' each place such term appears and 
    inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
    Sustainment''.
        (40) Section 806(b) of the Ike Skelton National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 124 
    Stat. 4260; 10 U.S.C. 2304 note) is amended by striking ``Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' 
    each place such term appears and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (41) Section 821(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 226; 10 U.S.C. 
    2304 note) is amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (42) Section 801(b)(2)(A) of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 204; 10 
    U.S.C. 2304 note) is amended by striking ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting 
    ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (43) Section 817(e) of the John Warner National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 120 
    Stat. 2326; 10 U.S.C. 2304 note) is amended by striking ``Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' 
    and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
    Sustainment''.
        (44) Section 811(e)(1) of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163; 120 Stat. 2326; 10 
    U.S.C. 2304 note) is amended by striking ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting 
    ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (45) Section 875 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2310; 10 U.S.C. 
    2305 note) is amended--
            (A) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment'';
            (B) in subsection (c), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment'';
            (C) in subsection (d), by striking ``The Under Secretary 
        for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting 
        ``The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Engineering''; and
            (D) in subsection (e) through (f), by striking ``Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
        Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (46) Section 888(b)(1) of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2322; 10 
    U.S.C. 2305 note) is amended by striking ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting 
    ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (47) Section 829(b)(1) of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2281; 10 
    U.S.C. 2306 note) is amended by striking ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting 
    ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (48) Section 2306b(i)(7) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (49) Section 2311(c) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''.
        (50) Section 2326(g) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (51) Section 2330 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment'';
            (B) in subsection (a)(3), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment'';
            (C) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''; and
            (D) in subsection (b)(3)(A), by striking ``Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''.
        (52) Section 882 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 942; 10 U.S.C. 2330 
    note) is amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking 
    ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
    Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (53) Section 2334 of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
    by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' each place such term appears and 
    inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
    Sustainment''.
        (54) Section 2350a(b)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics, and the Assistant Secretary of Defense 
    for Research and Engineering'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, and the Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Research and Engineering''.
        (55) Section 2359(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Research and Engineering''.
        (56) Section 2359b of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended--
            (A) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Engineering''; and
            (B) in subsection (l)(1), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Engineering''.
        (57) Section 2375 of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
    by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' each place such term appears and 
    inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
    Sustainment''.
        (58) Section 874(b)(1) of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2310; 10 
    U.S.C. 2375 note) is amended by striking ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting 
    ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (59) Section 876 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2311; 10 U.S.C. 
    2377 note) is amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (60) Section 855 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 919; 10 U.S.C. 2377 
    note) is amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' each place such term 
    appears and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition 
    and Sustainment''.
        (61) Section 856(a)(2)(B) of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 920; 10 
    U.S.C. 2377 note) is amended by striking ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting 
    ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (62) Section 2399(b)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics,'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, the Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Research and Engineering,''.
        (63) Section 2419(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (64) Section 826(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 908; 10 U.S.C. 
    2430 note) is amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (65) Section 827(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 909; 10 U.S.C. 
    2430 note) is amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (66) Section 811(b)(1) of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 1828; 10 
    U.S.C. 2430 note) is amended by striking ``if the Under Secretary 
    of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
    inserting ``if the service acquisition executive, in the case of a 
    major defense acquisition program of the military department, or 
    the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, in 
    the case of a Defense-wide or Defense Agency major defense 
    acquisition program,''.
        (67) Section 814 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 
    Stat. 4528) is amended--
            (A) in subsection (b)(2)--
                (i) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) through (H) as 
            subparagraphs (C) through (I), respectively;
                (ii) by striking subparagraph (A); and
                (iii) by inserting before subparagraph (C), as 
            redesignated by clause (i), the following new 
            subparagraphs:
            ``(A) The Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Research and Engineering.
            ``(B) The Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment.''; and
            (B) in subsection (c)(5), in the flush matter following 
        subparagraph (B), by striking ``the Under Secretary of Defense 
        for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics certifies to the 
        congressional defense committees, and includes'' and inserting 
        ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering 
        and the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment jointly certify to the congressional defense 
        committees, and include''.
        (68) Section 801(a)(1) of the John Warner National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 120 
    Stat. 2312; 10 U.S.C. 2430 note) is amended by striking ``Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' 
    and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
    Sustainment''.
        (69) Section 1675 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 192 Stat. 1131; 10 U.S.C. 2431 
    note) is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``The Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics and the Vice 
        Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, acting through the 
        Missile Defense Executive Board'' and inserting ``The Vice 
        Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the chairman of the 
        Missile Defense Executive Board (pursuant to section 1681(c) of 
        the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2162)), acting 
        through the Missile Defense Executive Board,''; and
            (B) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``chairman of the Missile Defense Executive Board''.
        (70) Section 2431a(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (71) Section 2435 of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
    by striking ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' each place it appears and inserting 
    ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (72) Section 2438(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''.
        (73) Section 2448b of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
    by striking subsections (a) and (b) and inserting the following new 
    subsections:
    ``(a) In General.--With respect to a major defense acquisition 
program, the Secretary of Defense shall conduct or approve independent 
technical risk assessments--
        ``(1) before any decision to grant Milestone A approval for the 
    program pursuant to section 2366a of this title, that identifies 
    critical technologies and manufacturing processes that need to be 
    matured; and
        ``(2) before any decision to grant Milestone B approval for the 
    program pursuant to section 2366b of this title, any decision to 
    enter into low-rate initial production or full-rate production, or 
    at any other time considered appropriate by the Secretary, that 
    includes the identification of any critical technologies or 
    manufacturing processes that have not been successfully 
    demonstrated in a relevant environment.
    ``(b) Guidance.--The Secretary shall issue guidance and a framework 
for the conduct, execution, and approval of independent technical risk 
assessments.''.
        (74) Section 2503(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended--
            (A) by striking ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``the 
        Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering and the 
        Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''; 
        and
            (B) by striking ``the Under Secretary shall'' and inserting 
        ``the Under Secretaries shall''.
        (75) Section 2508(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (76) Section 2521 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``The Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Engineering'';
            (B) in subsection (e)(4)(D), by striking ``Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Engineering''; and
            (C) in subsection (e)(5), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Engineering''.
        (77) Section 2533b(k)(2)(A) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (78) Section 2546 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (A) in the heading of subsection (a), by striking ``Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
        Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment'';
            (B) in subsection (a), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''; and
            (C) in subsection (b), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''.
        (79) Section 2548 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''; and
            (B) in subsection (c)(8), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''.
        (80) Section 2902(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Office of the Assistant 
        Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering'' and 
        inserting ``Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Research and Engineering''; and
            (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``Office of the Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
        Logistics'' and inserting ``Office of the Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (81) Section 2824(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2154; 10 U.S.C. 
    2911 note) is amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense'' 
    and all that follows through ``Environment'' and inserting ``Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (82) Section 315(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1357; 10 U.S.C. 
    2911 note) is amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (83) Section 2926(e)(5)(D) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary for 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (84) Section 836(a)(2) of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1508; 22 
    U.S.C. 2767 note) is amended by striking ``the Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, the Assistant 
    Secretary of Defense for Research,'' and inserting ``the Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, the Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering,''.
        (85) Section 105(d)(7)(M)(v) of the Trafficking Victims 
    Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7103(d)(7)(M)(v)) is amended by 
    striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, 
    and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (86) Section 1126(a)(3) of title 31, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (87) Section 11319(d)(4) of title 40, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (88) Section 1302(b)(2)(A)(i) of title 41, United States Code, 
    is amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (89) Section 1311(b)(3) of title 41, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (90) Section 7(a)(3) of the Strategic and Critical Materials 
    Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98f(a)(3)) is amended by striking 
    ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
    Logistics'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (91) Section 1412 of the National Defense Authorization Act, 
    1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521) is amended--
            (A) in subsection (f)(1), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''; and
            (B) in subsection (g)(2), by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment.''.
        (92) Section 133b(b)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by inserting ``appropriate prototyping activities,'' after 
    ``development,''.
        (93)(A) Section 5314 of title 5, United States Code, is amended 
    by inserting before the item relating to the Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment the following new item: 
    ``Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.''.
            (B) Section 5313 of title 5, United States Code, is amended 
        by striking the item relating to the Under Secretary of Defense 
        for Research and Engineering.
            (C) This paragraph shall have no force or effect until the 
        next date on which the Congress confirms an individual to serve 
        as the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering 
        after the date of enactment of this Act.
        (94) Section 338 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 
    Stat. 1728) is amended by striking ``the Under Secretary of Defense 
    for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``the 
    Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (95) Section 136(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1317) is 
    amended by striking ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``the Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (96) Section 1652(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2609) is 
    amended by striking ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``the Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering''.
        (97) Section 1689(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2631) is 
    amended by striking ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``the Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering''.
        (98) Section 144 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1325) is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``the Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and 
        inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment''; and
            (B) in subsection (b)(4), by striking ``the Assistant 
        Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering'' and 
        inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Engineering''.
        (99) Section 838(2)(B) of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1509) is 
    amended by striking ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``the Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
        (100) Section 802(a)(3)(C) of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 10 
    U.S.C. 2410p note) is amended by striking ``the Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting 
    ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
    SEC. 903. RETURN TO CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
      DEFENSE OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR BUSINESS SYSTEMS AND RELATED 
      MATTERS.
    (a) Return of Responsibility.--
        (1) In general.--Section 142(b)(1) of title 10, United States 
    Code, is amended by striking ``systems and'' each place it appears 
    in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C).
        (2) Conforming amendments to cmo authorities.--Section 132a(b) 
    of such title is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``performance measurement 
        and management, and business information technology management 
        and improvement activities and programs'' and inserting ``and 
        performance measurement and management activities and 
        programs'';
            (B) by striking paragraphs (4) and (5); and
            (C) by redesignating paragraphs (6) and (7) as paragraphs 
        (4) and (5), respectively.
    (b) Chief Data Officer Responsibility for DoD Data Sets.--
        (1) In general.--In addition to any other functions and 
    responsibilities specified in section 3520(c) of title 44, United 
    States, Code, the Chief Data Officer of the Department of Defense 
    shall also be the official in the Department of Defense with 
    principal responsibility for providing for the availability of 
    common, usable, Defense-wide data sets.
        (2) Access to all dod data.--In order to carry out the 
    responsibility specified in paragraph (1), the Chief Data Officer 
    shall have access to all Department of Defense data, including data 
    in connection with warfighting missions and back-office data.
        (3) Responsible to cio.--The Chief Data Officer shall report 
    directly to the Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
    Defense in the performance of the responsibility specified in 
    paragraph (1).
        (4) Report.--Not later than December 1, 2019, the Secretary of 
    Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
    Senate and the House of Representatives a report setting forth such 
    recommendations for legislative or administrative action as the 
    Secretary considers appropriate to carry out this subsection.
    SEC. 904. ASSESSMENTS OF RESPONSIBILITIES AND AUTHORITIES OF THE 
      CHIEF MANAGEMENT OFFICER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide for the 
conduct of two assessments of the implementation of the position of 
Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense pursuant to 
section 132a of title 10, United States Code, as follows:
        (1) Department of defense assessment.--An assessment conducted 
    by the Secretary or a designee of the Secretary.
        (2) Independent assessment.--An assessment conducted by the 
    Defense Business Board or an appropriate number of individuals 
    selected by the Secretary from among individuals in academia or 
    academic institutions with expertise in public administration and 
    management.
    (b) Assessment Elements.--Each assessment conducted pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall include an assessment of the implementation of the 
position of Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense, 
including and taking into account the following:
        (1) The extent to which the position has been effective in 
    achieving the service, and exercising the powers and authorities, 
    specified in section 132a of title 10, United States Code
        (2) The perspectives of the Under Secretaries of the military 
    departments on the matters described in paragraph (1) based on the 
    experiences of such Under Secretaries as the Chief Management 
    Officer of a military department
        (3) The extent to which the ingrained organizational culture of 
    the Department of Defense poses fundamental structural challenges 
    for the position of Chief Management Officer of the Department, 
    irrespective of the individual appointed to the position.
        (4) The observations of the Comptroller General of the United 
    States on progress and challenges during the prior 10 years in the 
    establishment of positions of Chief Management Officer in agencies 
    throughout the Executive Branch, including in the Department of 
    Defense and in other Federal agencies.
        (5) An identification and comparison of best practices in the 
    private sector and the public sector for the responsibilities and 
    authorities of Chief Management Officers.
        (6) An identification and assessment of differences in 
    responsibilities and authorities of the Chief Management Office of 
    the Department, the Chief Operating Officer of the Department of 
    Defense, and the Deputy Secretary of Defense.
    (c) Modification of Responsibilities and Authorities.--The 
Secretary shall identify such modifications, if any, to the 
responsibilities and authorities of the Chief Management Officer of the 
Department (whether specified in statute or otherwise) as the Secretary 
considers appropriate in light of the assessments conducted pursuant to 
subsection (a). In identifying any such modification, the Secretary 
shall develop recommendations for such legislative action as the 
Secretary considers appropriate to implement such modification.
    (d) Report.--Not later than March 15, 2020, the Secretary shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
assessments conducted pursuant to subsection (a) and on any 
modifications to the responsibilities and authorities of the Chief 
Management Officer of the Department identified pursuant to subsection 
(c). The report shall include the following:
        (1) A description and the results of the assessment conducted 
    pursuant to subsection (a).
        (2) Any modifications of the responsibilities and authorities 
    of the Chief Management Officer identified pursuant to subsection 
    (c), including recommendations developed for legislative action to 
    implement such recommendations and a proposed timeline for the 
    implementation of such recommendations.
    SEC. 905. SENIOR MILITARY ADVISOR FOR CYBER POLICY AND DEPUTY 
      PRINCIPAL CYBER ADVISOR.
    (a) Advisor.--
        (1) In general.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Policy 
    shall, acting through the Joint Staff, designate an officer within 
    the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy to serve 
    within that Office as the Senior Military Advisor for Cyber Policy, 
    and concurrently, as the Deputy Principal Cyber Advisor.
        (2) Officers eligible for designation.--The officer designated 
    pursuant to this subsection shall be designated from among 
    commissioned regular officers of the Armed Forces in a general or 
    flag officer grade who are qualified for designation
        (3) Grade.--The officer designated pursuant to this subsection 
    shall have the grade of major general or rear admiral (upper half) 
    while serving in that position, without vacating the officer's 
    permanent grade.
    (b) Scope of Positions.--
        (1) In general.--The officer designated pursuant to subsection 
    (a) is each of the following:
            (A) The Senior Military Advisor for Cyber Policy to the 
        Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.
            (B) The Deputy Principal Cyber Advisor to the Secretary of 
        Defense.
        (2) Direction and control and reporting.--In carrying out 
    duties under this section, the officer designed pursuant to 
    subsection (a) shall be subject to the authority, direction, and 
    control of, and shall report directly to, the following:
            (A) The Under Secretary with respect to Senior Military 
        Advisor for Cyber Policy duties.
            (B) The Principal Cyber Advisor with respect to Deputy 
        Principal Cyber Advisor duties.
    (c) Duties.--
        (1) Duties as senior military advisor for cyber policy.--The 
    duties of the officer designated pursuant to subsection (a) as 
    Senior Military Advisor for Cyber Policy are as follows:
            (A) To serve as the principal uniformed military advisor on 
        military cyber forces and activities to the Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Policy.
            (B) To assess and advise the Under Secretary on aspects of 
        policy relating to military cyberspace operations, resources, 
        personnel, cyber force readiness, cyber workforce development, 
        and defense of Department of Defense networks.
            (C) To advocate, in consultation with the Joint Staff, and 
        senior officers of the Armed Forces and the combatant commands, 
        for consideration of military issues within the Office of the 
        Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, including coordination 
        and synchronization of Department cyber forces and activities.
            (D) To maintain open lines of communication between the 
        Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense, senior 
        civilian leaders within the Office of the Under Secretary, and 
        senior officers on the Joint Staff, the Armed Forces, and the 
        combatant commands on cyber matters, and to ensure that 
        military leaders are informed on cyber policy decisions.
        (2) Duties as deputy principal cyber advisor.--The duties of 
    the officer designated pursuant to subsection (a) as Deputy 
    Principal Cyber Advisor are as follows:
            (A) To synchronize, coordinate, and oversee implementation 
        of the Cyber Strategy of the Department of Defense and other 
        relevant policy and planning.
            (B) To advise the Secretary of Defense on cyber programs, 
        projects, and activities of the Department, including with 
        respect to policy, training, resources, personnel, manpower, 
        and acquisitions and technology.
            (C) To oversee implementation of Department policy and 
        operational directives on cyber programs, projects, and 
        activities, including with respect to resources, personnel, 
        manpower, and acquisitions and technology.
            (D) To assist in the overall supervision of Department 
        cyber activities relating to offensive missions.
            (E) To assist in the overall supervision of Department 
        defensive cyber operations, including activities of component-
        level cybersecurity service providers and the integration of 
        such activities with activities of the Cyber Mission Force.
            (F) To advise senior leadership of the Department on, and 
        advocate for, investment in capabilities to execute Department 
        missions in and through cyberspace.
            (G) To identify shortfalls in capabilities to conduct 
        Department missions in and through cyberspace, and make 
        recommendations on addressing such shortfalls in the Program 
        Budget Review process.
            (H) To coordinate and consult with stakeholders in the 
        cyberspace domain across the Department in order to identify 
        other issues on cyberspace for the attention of senior 
        leadership of the Department.
            (I) On behalf of the Principal Cyber Advisor, to lead the 
        cross-functional team established pursuant to 932(c)(3) of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (10 
        U.S.C. 2224 note) in order to synchronize and coordinate 
        military and civilian cyber forces and activities of the 
        Department.
    SEC. 906. EXCLUSION FROM LIMITATIONS ON PERSONNEL IN THE OFFICE OF 
      THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE AND DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE HEADQUARTERS 
      OF FELLOWS APPOINTED UNDER THE JOHN S. MCCAIN DEFENSE FELLOWS 
      PROGRAM.
    Section 932(f)(3) of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 
1938; 10 U.S.C. 1580 note prec.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new sentence: ``An individual appointed pursuant to this 
paragraph shall not count against the limitation on the number of 
Office of the Secretary of Defense personnel in section 143 of title 
10, United States Code, or any similar limitation in law on the number 
of personnel in headquarters of the Department that would otherwise 
apply to the office or headquarters to which appointed.''.

Subtitle B--Organization and Management of Other Department of Defense 
                          Offices and Elements

    SEC. 911. CODIFICATION OF ASSISTANT SECRETARIES FOR ENERGY, 
      INSTALLATIONS, AND ENVIRONMENT OF THE ARMY, NAVY, AND AIR FORCE.
    (a) Assistant Secretary of the Army.--Section 7016(b) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
    ``(6)(A) One of the Assistant Secretaries shall be the Assistant 
Secretary for Energy, Installations, and Environment.
    ``(B) The principal duty of the Assistant Secretary for Energy, 
Installations, and Environment shall be the overall supervision of 
energy, installation, and environment matters for the Department of the 
Army.''.
    (b) Assistant Secretary of the Navy.--Section 8016(b) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
    ``(5)(A) One of the Assistant Secretaries shall be the Assistant 
Secretary for Energy, Installations, and Environment.
    ``(B) The principal duty of the Assistant Secretary for Energy, 
Installations, and Environment shall be the overall supervision of 
energy, installation, and environment matters for the Department of the 
Navy.''.
    (c) Assistant Secretary of the Air Force.--Section 9016(b) of title 
10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following 
new paragraph:
    ``(5)(A) One of the Assistant Secretaries shall be the Assistant 
Secretary for Energy, Installations, and Environment.
    ``(B) The principal duty of the Assistant Secretary for Energy, 
Installations, and Environment shall be the overall supervision of 
energy, installation, and environment matters for the Department of the 
Air Force.''.

  Subtitle C--Other Department of Defense Organization and Management 
                                Matters

    SEC. 921. PROHIBITION ON OWNERSHIP OR TRADING OF STOCKS IN CERTAIN 
      COMPANIES BY CERTAIN OFFICIALS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 49 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 988. Prohibition on ownership or trading of stocks in certain 
   companies by certain officials of the Department of Defense
    ``(a) Prohibition.--Except as provided in subsection (b), a covered 
official of the Department of Defense may not own or purchase publicly 
traded stock of a company if that company is one of the 10 entities 
awarded the most amount of contract funds by the Department of Defense 
in a fiscal year during the five preceding fiscal years.
    ``(b) Exceptions.--This section shall not apply to the purchase or 
ownership of a publicly traded stock of a company otherwise described 
in subsection (a) as follows:
        ``(1) If the aggregate market value of the holdings of the 
    covered official, and the spouse and minor children of the covered 
    official, in the stock of that company, both before and after 
    purchase (in the case of a purchase), does not exceed the de 
    minimis threshold established in section 2640.202(a)(2) of title 5, 
    Code of Federal Regulations.
        ``(2) If the stock is purchased and owned as part of an 
    Excepted Investment Fund or mutual fund.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `covered official of the Department of Defense' 
    means any of the following:
            ``(A) A civilian appointed to a position in the Department 
        of Defense by the President, by and with the advice and consent 
        of the Senate.
            ``(B) If serving in a key acquisition position (as 
        designated by the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary 
        concerned for purposes of this section), the following:
                ``(i) A member of the armed forces in a grade above O-
            6.
                ``(ii) A civilian officer or employee in a Senior 
            Executive Service, Senior-Level, or Scientific or 
            Professional position.
        ``(2) The term `Excepted Investment Fund' means a widely-held 
    investment fund described in section 102(f)(8) of the Ethics in 
    Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 49 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following 
new item:

``988. Prohibition on ownership or trading of stocks in certain 
          companies by certain officials of the Department of 
          Defense.''.
    SEC. 922. LIMITATION ON CONSOLIDATION OF DEFENSE MEDIA ACTIVITY.
    (a) Limitation.--The Secretary of Defense may not take any action 
to consolidate the Defense Media Activity until a period of 60 days has 
elapsed following the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits 
the report required under subsection (b).
    (b) Report Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report that includes the following:
        (1) Any current or future plans to restructure, reduce, or 
    eliminate the functions, personnel, facilities, or capabilities of 
    the Defense Media Activity, including the timelines associated with 
    such plans.
        (2) Any modifications that have been made, or that may be made, 
    to personnel compensation or funding accounts in preparation for, 
    or in response to, efforts to consolidate the Defense Media 
    Activity.
        (3) Any contractual agreements that have been entered into to 
    consolidate or explore the consolidation of the Defense Media 
    Activity.
        (4) Any Department of Defense directives or Administration 
    guidance relating to efforts to consolidate the Defense Media 
    Activity, including any directives or guidance intended to inform 
    or instruct such efforts.
    (c) Consolidate Defined.--In this section, the term 
``consolidate'', means any action to reduce the functions, personnel, 
facilities, or capabilities of the Defense Media Activity.
    SEC. 923. REPORT ON RESOURCES TO IMPLEMENT THE CIVILIAN CASUALTY 
      POLICY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report, in unclassified form, on the resources necessary 
over the period of the future-years defense plan for fiscal year 2020 
under section 221 of title 10, United States Code, to fulfill the 
requirements of section 936 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 
1939; 10 U.S.C. 134 note) and fully implement policies developed as a 
result of such section.

                 Subtitle D--United States Space Force

    SEC. 951. SHORT TITLE.
    This subtitle may be cited as the ``United States Space Force 
Act''.
    SEC. 952. THE SPACE FORCE.
    (a) Redesignation.--The Air Force Space Command is hereby 
redesignated as the United States Space Force (USSF).
    (b) Authority.--Title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in chapter 907 of part I of subtitle D, by redesignating 
    sections 9067, 9069, 9074, 9075, 9081, and 9084 as sections 9063, 
    9064, 9065, 9066, 9067, and 9068, respectively;
        (2) by adding at the end of such part the following new 
    chapter:

                     ``CHAPTER 908--THE SPACE FORCE

``Sec.
``9081. The United States Space Force.
``9082. Chief of Space Operations.
``9083. Officer career field for space.'';

        (3) by transferring section 2279c to chapter 908, as so added, 
    and redesignating such section as section 9081; and
        (4) by amending such section 9081 to read as follows:
``Sec. 9081. The United States Space Force
    ``(a) Establishment.--There is established a United States Space 
Force as an armed force within the Department of the Air Force.
    ``(b) Composition.--The Space Force shall be composed of the 
following:
        ``(1) The Chief of Space Operations.
        ``(2) The space forces and such assets as may be organic 
    therein.
    ``(c) Functions.--The Space Force shall be organized, trained, and 
equipped to provide--
        ``(1) freedom of operation for the United States in, from, and 
    to space; and
        ``(2) prompt and sustained space operations.
    ``(d) Duties.--It shall be the duty of the Space Force to--
        ``(1) protect the interests of the United States in space;
        ``(2) deter aggression in, from, and to space; and
        ``(3) conduct space operations.''.
    (c) Space Force as an Armed Force.--Section 101(a)(4) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting ``Space Force,'' after 
``Marine Corps,''.
    (d) Members.--
        (1) In general.--Effective as of the date of the enactment of 
    this Act, there shall be assigned to the Space Force such members 
    of the Air Force as the Secretary of the Air Force shall specify.
        (2) No authorization of additional military billets.--The 
    Secretary shall carry out this subsection within military personnel 
    of the Air Force otherwise authorized by this Act. Nothing in this 
    subsection shall be construed to authorize additional military 
    billets for the purposes of, or in connection with, the 
    establishment of the Space Force.
    (e) Officer Career Field for Space.--Section 9068 of title 10, 
United States Code (as redesignated by subsection (b)(1)), is hereby 
transferred to the end of chapter 908 of such title (as added by 
subsection (b)(2)) and redesignated as section 9083.
    (f) Tables of Chapters.--The tables of chapters at the beginning of 
subtitle D of title 10, United States Code, and part I of such subtitle 
are each amended by inserting after the item relating to chapter 907 
the following new item:

``908. The Space Force..........................................9081.''.

    (g) Conforming Clerical Amendment to Chapter 907.--The table of 
sections at the beginning of chapter 907 of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by striking the items relating to sections 9067, 9069, 
9074, 9075, 9081, and 9084 and inserting the following new items:

``9063. Designation: officers to perform certain professional functions.
``9064. Air Force nurses: Chief; appointment.
``9065. Commands: territorial organization.
``9066. Regular Air Force: composition.
``9067. Assistant Surgeon General for Dental Services.''.
    SEC. 953. CHIEF OF SPACE OPERATIONS.
    (a) Chief.--Chapter 908 of title 10, United States Code (as added 
by section 952 of this Act), is amended by inserting after section 9081 
the following new section:
``Sec. 9082. Chief of Space Operations
    ``(a) Appointment.--(1) There is a Chief of Space Operations, 
appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the 
Senate, from the general officers of the Air Force. The Chief serves at 
the pleasure of the President.
    ``(2) The Chief shall be appointed for a term of four years. In 
time of war or during a national emergency declared by Congress, the 
Chief may be reappointed for a term of not more than four years.
    ``(b) Grade.--The Chief, while so serving, has the grade of general 
without vacating the permanent grade of the officer.
    ``(c) Relationship to the Secretary of the Air Force.--Except as 
otherwise prescribed by law and subject to section 9013(f) of this 
title, the Chief performs the duties of such position under the 
authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of the Air Force and 
is directly responsible to the Secretary.
    ``(d) Duties.--Subject to the authority, direction, and control of 
the Secretary of the Air Force, the Chief shall--
        ``(1) preside over the Office of the Chief of Space Operations;
        ``(2) transmit the plans and recommendations of the Office of 
    the Chief of Space Operations to the Secretary and advise the 
    Secretary with regard to such plans and recommendations;
        ``(3) after approval of the plans or recommendations of the 
    Office of the Chief of Space Operations by the Secretary, act as 
    the agent of the Secretary in carrying them into effect;
        ``(4) exercise supervision, consistent with the authority 
    assigned to commanders of unified or specified combatant commands 
    under chapter 6 of this title, over such of the members and 
    organizations of the Space Force as the Secretary determines; and
        ``(5) perform such other military duties, not otherwise 
    assigned by law, as are assigned to the Chief by the President, the 
    Secretary of Defense, or the Secretary of the Air Force.
    ``(e) Joint Chiefs of Staff.--(1) Commencing one year after the 
date of the enactment of the United States Space Force Act, the Chief 
of Space Operations shall be a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
    ``(2) To the extent that such action does not impair the 
independence of the Chief in the performance of the duties of the Chief 
as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff pursuant to paragraph (1), the 
Chief shall inform the Secretary of the Air Force regarding military 
advice rendered by members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff on matters 
affecting the Department of the Air Force.
    ``(3) Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the 
Secretary of Defense, the Chief shall keep the Secretary of the Air 
Force fully informed of significant military operations affecting the 
duties and responsibilities of the Secretary.''.
    (b) Service.--
        (1) Incumbent.--The individual serving as Commander of the Air 
    Force Space Command as of the day before the date of the enactment 
    of this Act may serve as the Chief of Space Operations under 
    subsection (a) of section 9082 of title 10, United States Code (as 
    added by subsection (a) of this section), after that date without 
    further appointment as otherwise provided for by subsection (a) of 
    such section 9082.
        (2) U.S. space command.--During the one-year period beginning 
    on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
    may authorize an officer serving as the Chief of Space Operations 
    to serve concurrently as the Commander of the United States Space 
    Command, without further appointment.
    (c) Joint Chiefs of Staff Matters.--Effective on the date that is 
one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, section 151(a) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
        ``(8) The Chief of Space Operations.''.
    SEC. 954. SPACE FORCE ACQUISITION COUNCIL.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 903 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) by redesignating section 9021 as section 9021a; and
        (2) by inserting after section 9020 the following new section 
    9021:
``Sec. 9021. Space Force Acquisition Council
    ``(a) Establishment.--There is in the Office of the Secretary of 
the Air Force a council to be known as the `Space Force Acquisition 
Council' (in this section referred to as the `Council').
    ``(b) Members.--The members of the Council are as follows:
        ``(1) The Under Secretary of the Air Force.
        ``(2) The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space 
    Acquisition and Integration, who shall act as chair of the Council.
        ``(3) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Space Policy.
        ``(4) The Director of the National Reconnaissance Office.
        ``(5) The Chief of Space Operations.
        ``(6) The Commander of the United States Space Command.
    ``(c) Duties.--The Council shall oversee, direct, and manage 
acquisition and integration of the Air Force for space systems and 
programs in order to ensure integration across the national security 
space enterprise.
    ``(d) Meetings.--The Council shall meet not less frequently than 
monthly.
    ``(e) Reports.--Not later than 30 days after the end of each 
calendar year quarter through the first calendar year quarter of 2025, 
the Council shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report on the activities of the Council during the calendar year 
quarter preceding the calendar year quarter in which such report is 
submitted.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 903 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 9021 and inserting the following new items:

``9021. Space Force Acquisition Council.
``9021a. Air Force Reserve Forces Policy Committee.''.
    SEC. 955. ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR SPACE POLICY.
    (a) In General.--Section 138(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(5) One of the Assistant Secretaries is the Assistant Secretary 
of Defense for Space Policy. The principal duty of the Assistant 
Secretary shall be the overall supervision of policy of the Department 
of Defense for space warfighting.''.
    (b) Elements of Office.--
        (1) Development of recommendations.--The Secretary of Defense 
    shall seek to enter into an agreement with a federally funded 
    research and development center on the development of 
    recommendations as to the appropriate elements of the Office of the 
    Assistant Secretary of Defense for Space Policy, including, in 
    particular, whether the elements of the Office should include 
    elements on space that are currently assigned to the Office of the 
    Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence or the Military 
    Intelligence Program.
        (2) Transmittal.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall transmit to the 
    Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
    Representatives the recommendations developed pursuant to paragraph 
    (1), together with an assessment of such recommendations by the 
    Secretary.
    SEC. 956. ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE FOR SPACE 
      ACQUISITION AND INTEGRATION.
    (a) Redesignation of Principal Assistant for Space as Assistant 
Secretary for Space Acquisition and Integration.--
        (1) In general.--The Principal Assistant to the Secretary of 
    the Air Force for Space is hereby redesignated as the Assistant 
    Secretary of the Air Force for Space Acquisition and Integration.
        (2) References.--Any reference to the Principal Assistant to 
    the Secretary of the Air Force for Space in any law, regulation, 
    map, document, record, or other paper of the United States shall be 
    deemed to be a reference to the Assistant Secretary of the Air 
    Force for Space Acquisition and Integration.
    (b) Codification of Position and Responsibilities.--
        (1) In general.--Section 9016 of title 10, United States Code, 
    as amended by subtitle B of this title, is further amended--
            (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``four'' and inserting 
        ``five''; and
            (B) in subsection (b), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraph:
    ``(6)(A) One of the Assistant Secretaries is the Assistant 
Secretary of the Air Force for Space Acquisition and Integration.
    ``(B) Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the 
Secretary of the Air Force, the Assistant Secretary shall do as 
follows:
        ``(i) Be responsible for all architecture and integration of 
    the Air Force for space systems and programs, including in support 
    of the Chief of Space Operations under section 9082 of this title.
        ``(ii) Act as the chair of the Space Force Acquisition Council 
    under section 9021 of this title.
        ``(iii) Advise the service acquisition executive of the Air 
    Force with responsibility for space systems and programs (including 
    for all major defense acquisition programs under chapter 144 of 
    this title for space) on the acquisition of such systems and 
    programs by the Air Force.
        ``(iv) Oversee and direct each of the following:
            ``(I) The Space Rapid Capabilities Office under section 
        2273a of this title.
            ``(II) The Space and Missile Systems Center.
            ``(III) The Space Development Agency.
        ``(v) Advise and synchronize acquisition projects for all space 
    systems and programs of the Air Force, including projects for space 
    systems and programs responsibility for which is transferred to the 
    Assistant Secretary pursuant to section 956(b)(3) of the United 
    States Space Force Act.
        ``(vi) Effective as of October 1, 2022, in accordance with 
    section 957 of that Act, serve as the Service Acquisition Executive 
    of the Department of the Air Force for Space Systems and 
    Programs.''.
        (2) Executive schedule level iv.--Section 5315 of title 5, 
    United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to the 
    Assistant Secretaries of the Air Force and inserting the following 
    new item:
        ``Assistant Secretaries of the Air Force (5).''.
        (3) Transfer of acquisition projects for space systems and 
    programs.--Effective October 1, 2022, the Secretary of the Air 
    Force shall transfer to the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force 
    for Space Acquisition and Integration under paragraph (6) of 
    section 9016(b) of title 10, United States Code (as added by this 
    subsection), responsibility for architecture and integration of any 
    acquisition projects for space systems and programs of the Air 
    Force that are under the oversight or direction of the Assistant 
    Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition as of September 30, 
    2022.
    SEC. 957. SERVICE ACQUISITION EXECUTIVE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE 
      AIR FORCE FOR SPACE SYSTEMS AND PROGRAMS.
    (a) In General.--Effective October 1, 2022, there shall be within 
the Department of the Air Force a Service Acquisition Executive of the 
Department of the Air Force for Space Systems and Programs.
    (b) Service.--
        (1) In general.--Effective as of October 1, 2022, and subject 
    to paragraph (2), the individual serving as Assistant Secretary of 
    the Air Force for Space Acquisition and Integration under paragraph 
    (6) of section 9016(b) of title 10, United States Code (as added by 
    section 1832(b) of this Act), shall also serve as the Service 
    Acquisition Executive for Space Systems and Programs.
        (2) Incumbent.--The individual serving as Assistant Secretary 
    of the Air Force for Space Acquisition and Integration as of 
    October 1, 2022, may also serve as the Service Acquisition 
    Executive for Space Systems and Programs pursuant to paragraph (1) 
    only if appointed as the Service Acquisition Executive for Space 
    Systems and Programs by the President, by and with the advice and 
    consent of the Senate, pursuant to a nomination submitted to the 
    Senate on or after that date.
    (c) Authorities and Responsibilities.--
        (1) In general.--The Service Acquisition Executive for Space 
    Systems and Programs shall have within the Department of the Air 
    Force all the authorities and responsibilities of a service 
    acquisition executive under section 1704 of title 10, United States 
    Code, and other applicable law, for the Department of the Air Force 
    with respect to space systems and programs.
        (2) Separate sae within the air force.--The Service Acquisition 
    Executive for Space Systems and Programs shall be in addition to 
    the service acquisition executive in the Department of the Air 
    Force for all acquisition matters of the Department of the Air 
    Force other than with respect to space systems and programs.
        (3) Guidance on relationship among saes.--Not later than 
    October 1, 2022, and from time to time thereafter, the Secretary of 
    the Air Force shall issue guidance for the Department of the Air 
    Force on the authorities and responsibilities of the Service 
    Acquisition Executive for Space Systems and Programs and the 
    authorities and responsibilities of the service acquisition 
    executive of the Department for all acquisition matters of the 
    Department other than with respect to space systems and programs.
    SEC. 958. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS AND CLARIFICATION OF AUTHORITIES.
    (a) Conforming Amendments.--Title 10, United States Code, is 
amended as follows:
        (1) In section 101(a)(9)(C), by inserting ``and the Space 
    Force'' before the semicolon.
        (2) In section 2273a--
            (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``Air Force Space 
        Command'' and inserting ``Space Force''; and
            (B) in subsection (b), by striking ``Commander of the Air 
        Force Space Command'' and inserting ``Chief of Space 
        Operations''.
    (b) Clarification of Authorities.--
        (1) In general.--Except as specifically provided by this 
    subtitle or the amendments made by this subtitle--
            (A) a member of the Space Force shall be treated as a 
        member of the Air Force for the purpose of the application of 
        any provision of law, including provisions of law relating to 
        pay, benefits, and retirement; and
            (B) a civilian employee of the Space Force shall be treated 
        as a civilian employee of the Air Force for the purpose of the 
        application of any provision of law, including provisions of 
        law relating to pay, benefits, and retirement.
        (2) Appointment and enlistment.--For purposes of the 
    appointment or enlistment of individuals as members of the Space 
    Force pending the integration of the Space Force into the laws 
    providing for the appointment or enlistment of individuals as 
    members of the Armed Forces, appointments and enlistments of 
    individuals as members of the Armed Forces in the Space Force may 
    be made in the same manner in which appointments and enlistments of 
    individuals as members of the Armed Forces in the other Armed 
    Forces may be made by law.
    SEC. 959. EFFECTS ON MILITARY INSTALLATIONS.
    Nothing in this subtitle, or the amendments made by this subtitle, 
shall be construed to authorize or require the relocation of any 
facility, infrastructure, or military installation of the Air Force.
    SEC. 960. AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.
    (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), amounts authorized to 
be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 by this Act and available for the 
Air Force may be obligated and expended for programs, projects, and 
activities for space, including personnel and acquisition programs, 
projects, and activities, for and in connection with the establishment 
of the Space Force and the discharge of the other requirements of this 
title and the amendments made by this subtitle.
    (b) Limitation.--The total amount obligated and expended in fiscal 
year 2020 from amounts authorized to be appropriated by this Act for 
and in connection with the establishment of the Space Force and the 
discharge of the requirements described in subsection (a) may not 
exceed the total amount requested for the Space Force in the budget of 
the President for fiscal year 2020, as submitted to Congress pursuant 
to section 1105(a) of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 961. IMPLEMENTATION.
    (a) Requirement.--Except as specifically provided by this subtitle, 
the Secretary of the Air Force shall implement this subtitle, and the 
amendments made by this subtitle, by not later than 18 months after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Briefings.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and every 60 days thereafter until March 31, 
2023, the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief of Space Operations 
shall jointly provide to the congressional defense committees a 
briefing on the status of the implementation of the Space Force 
pursuant to this subtitle and the amendments made by this subtitle. 
Each briefing shall address the current missions, operations and 
activities, manpower requirements and status, and budget and funding 
requirements and status of the Space Force, and such other matters with 
respect to the implementation and operation of the Space Force as the 
Secretary and the Chief jointly consider appropriate to keep Congress 
fully and currently informed on the status of the implementation of the 
Space Force.

                      TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                      Subtitle A--Financial Matters

Sec. 1001. General transfer authority.
Sec. 1002. Defense Business Audit Remediation Plan.
Sec. 1003. Financial improvement and audit remediation plan.
Sec. 1004. Reporting requirements relating to Department of Defense 
          audits.
Sec. 1005. Inclusion of certain military construction projects in annual 
          reports on unfunded priorities of the Armed Forces and the 
          combatant commands.
Sec. 1006. Prohibition on delegation of responsibility for submittal to 
          Congress of Out-Year Unconstrained Total Munitions 
          Requirements and Out-Year Inventory numbers.
Sec. 1007. Annual budget justification display for service-common and 
          other support and enabling capabilities for special operations 
          forces.
Sec. 1008. Element in annual reports on the Financial Improvement and 
          Audit Remediation Plan on activities with respect to 
          classified programs.
Sec. 1009. Plan of the Department of Defense for financial management 
          information.
Sec. 1010. Update of authorities and renaming of Department of Defense 
          Acquisition Workforce Development Fund.
Sec. 1011. Transparency of accounting firms used to support Department 
          of Defense audit.
Sec. 1012. Modification of required elements of annual reports on 
          emergency and extraordinary expenses of the Department of 
          Defense.

                   Subtitle B--Counterdrug Activities

Sec. 1021. Modification of authority to support a unified counterdrug 
          and counterterrorism campaign in Colombia.
Sec. 1022. Extension of authority for joint task forces to provide 
          support to law enforcement agencies conducting counter-
          terrorism activities.
Sec. 1023. Sense of Congress regarding Department of Defense counterdrug 
          activities in the transit zone and Caribbean basin.
Sec. 1024. Assessment of impact of any planned or proposed border wall 
          on volume of illegal narcotics.

                        Subtitle C--Naval Vessels

Sec. 1031. Modification of authority to purchase vessels using funds in 
          National Defense Sealift Fund.
Sec. 1032. Use of National Defense Sealift Fund for procurement of two 
          used vessels.
Sec. 1033. Transportation by sea of supplies for the Armed Forces and 
          Defense Agencies.
Sec. 1034. Senior Technical Authority for each naval vessel class.
Sec. 1035. Permanent authority for sustaining operational readiness of 
          littoral combat ships on extended deployment.
Sec. 1036. Formal training for shipboard system programs of record.
Sec. 1037. Report on shipbuilder training and the defense industrial 
          base.
Sec. 1038. Use of competitive procedures for CVN-80 and CVN-81 dual 
          aircraft carrier contract.
Sec. 1039. Report on expanding naval vessel maintenance.

                      Subtitle D--Counterterrorism

Sec. 1041. Modification of support of special operations to combat 
          terrorism.
Sec. 1042. Extension of prohibition on use of funds for transfer or 
          release of individuals detained at United States Naval 
          Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to certain countries.
Sec. 1043. Extension of prohibition on use of funds for transfer or 
          release of individuals detained at United States Naval 
          Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to the United States.
Sec. 1044. Extension of prohibition on use of funds to construct or 
          modify facilities in the United States to house detainees 
          transferred from United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, 
          Cuba.
Sec. 1045. Extension of prohibition on use of funds to close or 
          relinquish control of United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
          Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1046. Chief Medical Officer at United States Naval Station, 
          Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1047. Independent assessment on gender and countering violent 
          extremism.

          Subtitle E--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

Sec. 1051. Scheduling of Department of Defense executive aircraft 
          controlled by Secretaries of military departments.
Sec. 1052. Explosive ordnance defense disposal program.
Sec. 1053. Technical correction and extension of reporting requirement 
          regarding enhancement of information sharing and coordination 
          of military training between Department of Homeland Security 
          and Department of Defense.
Sec. 1054. Notification on the provision of defense sensitive support.
Sec. 1055. Revision to authorities relating to mail service for members 
          of the Armed Forces and Department of Defense civilians 
          overseas.
Sec. 1056. Access to and use of military post offices by United States 
          citizens employed overseas by the North Atlantic Treaty 
          Organization who perform functions in support of military 
          operations of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 1057. Expenditure of funds for Department of Defense intelligence 
          and counterintelligence activities.
Sec. 1058. Limitation on use of funds for the inactivation of Army 
          watercraft units.

                     Subtitle A--Financial Matters

SEC. 1001. GENERAL TRANSFER AUTHORITY.
    (a) Authority to Transfer Authorizations.--
        (1) Authority.--Upon determination by the Secretary of Defense 
    that such action is necessary in the national interest, the 
    Secretary may transfer amounts of authorizations made available to 
    the Department of Defense in this division for fiscal year 2020 
    between any such authorizations for that fiscal year (or any 
    subdivisions thereof). Amounts of authorizations so transferred 
    shall be merged with and be available for the same purposes as the 
    authorization to which transferred.
        (2) Limitation.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), the total 
    amount of authorizations that the Secretary may transfer under the 
    authority of this section may not exceed $4,000,000,000.
        (3) Exception for transfers between military personnel 
    authorizations.--A transfer of funds between military personnel 
    authorizations under title IV shall not be counted toward the 
    dollar limitation in paragraph (2).
    (b) Limitations.--The authority provided by subsection (a) to 
transfer authorizations--
        (1) may only be used to provide authority for items that have a 
    higher priority than the items from which authority is transferred; 
    and
        (2) may not be used to provide authority for an item that has 
    been denied authorization by Congress.
    (c) Effect on Authorization Amounts.--A transfer made from one 
account to another under the authority of this section shall be deemed 
to increase the amount authorized for the account to which the amount 
is transferred by an amount equal to the amount transferred.
    (d) Notice to Congress.--The Secretary shall promptly notify 
Congress of each transfer made under subsection (a).
SEC. 1002. DEFENSE BUSINESS AUDIT REMEDIATION PLAN.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 9A of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 240g. Defense Business Audit Remediation Plan
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall maintain a plan, 
to be known as the `Defense Business Systems Audit Remediation Plan'. 
Such plan shall include a current accounting of the defense business 
systems of the Department of Defense that will be introduced, replaced, 
updated, modified, or retired in connection with the audit of the full 
financial statements of the Department, including a comprehensive 
roadmap that displays--
        ``(1) in-service, retirement, and other pertinent dates for 
    affected defense business systems;
        ``(2) current cost-to-complete estimates for each affected 
    defense business system; and
        ``(3) dependencies both between the various defense business 
    systems and between the introduction, replacement, update, 
    modification, and retirement of such systems.
    ``(b) Report and Briefing Requirements.--
        ``(1) Annual report.--Not later than June 30, 2020, and 
    annually thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees an updated report on the Defense 
    Business Systems Audit Remediation Plan under subsection (a).
        ``(2) Semiannual briefings.--Not later than January 31 and June 
    30 each year, the Secretary shall provide to the congressional 
    defense committees a briefing on the status of the Defense Business 
    Systems Audit Remediation Plan. Such briefing shall include a 
    description of any updates to the defense business systems roadmap 
    referred to in subsection (a).
    ``(c) Defense Business System.--In this section, the term `defense 
business system' has the meaning given such term in section 
2222(i)(1)(A) of this title.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``240g. Defense Business Audit Remediation Plan.''.
SEC. 1003. FINANCIAL IMPROVEMENT AND AUDIT REMEDIATION PLAN.
    (a) Elements of Annual Report.--Subsection (b)(1)(B) of section 
240b of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in clause (vii)--
            (A) by striking ``or if less than 50 percent of the audit 
        remediation services''; and
            (B) by striking ``and audit remediation activities''; and
        (2) in clause (viii), by striking ``or if less than 25 percent 
    of the audit remediation services''.
    (b) Semiannual Briefings.--Subsection (b)(2) of such section is 
amended by striking ``or audit remediation''.
    (c) Audit Remediation Services.--Subsection (b) of such section is 
further amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)(B), by adding at the end the following new 
    clauses:
                ``(ix) If less than 50 percent of the audit remediation 
            services under contract, as described in the briefing 
            required under paragraph (2)(B), are being performed by 
            individual professionals meeting the qualifications 
            described in suhsection (c), a detailed description of the 
            risks associated with the risks of the acquisition strategy 
            of the Department with respect to conducting audit 
            remediation activities and an explanation of how the 
            strategy complies with the policies expressed by Congress.
                ``(x) If less than 25 percent of the audit remediation 
            services under contract, as described in the briefing 
            required under paragraph (2)(B), are being performed by 
            individual professionals meeting the qualifications 
            described in subsection (c), a written certification that 
            the staffing ratio complies with commercial best practices 
            and presents no increased risk of delay in the Department's 
            ability to achieve a clean audit opinion.''; and
        (2) in paragraph (2)--
            (A) by striking ``Not later'' and inserting ``(A) Not 
        later''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
        ``(B) Not later than January 31 and June 30 each year, the 
    Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) and the comptrollers of 
    the military departments shall provide a briefing to the 
    congressional defense committees on the status of the corrective 
    action plan. Such briefing shall include both the absolute number 
    and percentage of personnel performing the amount of audit 
    remediation services being performed by professionals meeting the 
    qualifications described in subsection (c).''.
    (d) Selection of Audit Remediation Services.--Such section is 
further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Selection of Audit Remediation Services.--The selection of 
audit remediation service providers shall be based, among other 
appropriate criteria, on qualifications, relevant experience, and 
capacity to develop and implement corrective action plans to address 
internal control and compliance deficiencies identified during a 
financial statement or program audit.''.
SEC. 1004. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
AUDITS.
    (a) Annual Report.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 9A of title 10, United States Code, as 
    amended by section 1002 is further amended by adding at the end the 
    following new section:
``Sec. 240h. Annual report on auditable financial statements
    ``(a) In General.--Not later than January 30 of each year, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report that includes a ranking of all of the military 
departments and Defense Agencies in order of how advanced each such 
department and Agency is in achieving auditable financial statements, 
as required by law. In preparing the report, the Secretary shall seek 
to exclude information that is otherwise available in other reports to 
Congress.
    ``(b) Bottom Quartile.--Not later than June 30 of each year, the 
head of each of the military departments and Defense Agencies that were 
ranked in the bottom quartile of the report submitted under subsection 
(a) for that year shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
a report that includes the following information for that military 
department or Defense Agency:
        ``(1) A description of the material weaknesses of the military 
    department or Defense Agency.
        ``(2) The underlying causes of such weaknesses.
        ``(3) A plan for remediating such weaknesses.
        ``(4) The total number of open audit notices of findings and 
    recommendations (hereinafter referred to as `NFRs') for the most 
    recently concluded fiscal year and the preceding two fiscal years, 
    where applicable.
        ``(5) The number of repeat or reissued NFRs from the most 
    recently concluded fiscal year.
        ``(6) The number of NFRs that were previously forecasted to be 
    closed during the most recently concluded fiscal year that remain 
    open.
        ``(7) The number of closed NFRs during the current fiscal year 
    and prior fiscal years.
        ``(8) The number of material weaknesses that were validated by 
    external auditors as fully resolved or downgraded in the current 
    fiscal year over prior fiscal years.
        ``(9) A breakdown by fiscal years in which open NFRs are 
    forecasted to be closed.
        ``(10) Explanations for unfavorable trends in the information 
    under paragraphs (1) through (9).''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of such chapter , as amended by section 1002 is futher amended by 
    adding at the end the following new item:

``240h. Annual report on auditable financial statements.''.

    (b) Plan for Remediated Audit Findings.--Not later than 90 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
Department-wide audit metrics. Such report shall include each of the 
following:
        (1) The total number of open audit notices of findings and 
    recommendations (hereinafter referred to as ``NFRs'') for the most 
    recent fiscal year and the preceding two fiscal years where 
    applicable.
        (2) The number of repeat or reissued NFRs from the most recent 
    fiscal year.
        (3) The number of NFRs that were previously forecasted to be 
    closed in the most recently completed fiscal year that remain open,
        (4) The number of closed NFRs in the current fiscal year and 
    prior fiscal years.
        (5) The number of material weaknesses that were validated by 
    external auditors as fully resolved or downgraded in the current 
    fiscal year over prior fiscal years.
        (6) A breakdown by fiscal years in which open NFRs are 
    forecasted to be closed.
        (7) Explanations for unfavorable trends in the information 
    under paragraphs (1) through (5).
SEC. 1005. INCLUSION OF CERTAIN MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS IN 
ANNUAL REPORTS ON UNFUNDED PRIORITIES OF THE ARMED FORCES AND THE 
COMBATANT COMMANDS.
    (a) Inclusion of Certain Military Construction Projects Among 
Unfunded Priorities.--Subsection (d) of section 222a of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `unfunded priority', in the case of a fiscal 
    year, means a program, activity, or mission requirement, including 
    a covered military construction project, that--
            ``(A) is not funded in the budget of the President for the 
        fiscal year as submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 
        of title 31;
            ``(B) is necessary to fulfill a requirement associated with 
        an operational or contingency plan of a combatant command or 
        other validated requirement; and
            ``(C) would have been recommended for funding through the 
        budget referred to in subparagraph (1) by the officer 
        submitting the report required by subsection (a) in connection 
        with the budget if--
                ``(i) additional resources been available for the 
            budget to fund the program, activity, or mission 
            requirement; or
                ``(ii) the program, activity, or mission requirement 
            has emerged since the budget was formulated.
        ``(2) The term `covered military construction project', in 
    connection with a fiscal year, means a military construction 
    project that--
            ``(A) is included in any fiscal year of the future-years 
        defense program under section 221 of this title that is 
        submitted in connection with the budget of the President for 
        the fiscal year, and is executable in the fiscal year; or
            ``(B) is considered by the commander of a combatant command 
        referred to in subsection (b)(5) to be an urgent need, and is 
        executable in the fiscal year.''.
    (b) Order of Urgency of Priorities.--Paragraph (2) of subsection 
(c) of such section is amended to read as follows:
        ``(2) Prioritization of priorities.--Each report shall present 
    the unfunded priorities covered by such report as follows:
            ``(A) In overall order of urgency of priority.
            ``(B) In overall order of urgency of priority among 
        unfunded priorities (other than covered military construction 
        projects).
            ``(C) In overall order of urgency of priority among covered 
        military construction projects.''.
SEC. 1006. PROHIBITION ON DELEGATION OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR SUBMITTAL TO 
CONGRESS OF OUT-YEAR UNCONSTRAINED TOTAL MUNITIONS REQUIREMENTS AND 
OUT-YEAR INVENTORY NUMBERS.
    Section 222c of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``subsection (b)'' and 
    inserting ``subsection (c)'';
        (2) by redesignating subsections (b), (c), and (d) as 
    subsections (c), (d), and (e), respectively;
        (3) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
    subsection (b):
    ``(b) Prohibition on Delegation of Submittal Responsibility.--The 
responsibility of the chief of staff of an armed force in subsection 
(a) to submit a report may not be delegated outside the armed force 
concerned.''; and
        (4) in subsection (c), as redesignated by paragraph (2), by 
    striking ``subsection (c)'' in paragraph (6) and inserting 
    ``subsection (d)''.
SEC. 1007. ANNUAL BUDGET JUSTIFICATION DISPLAY FOR SERVICE-COMMON AND 
OTHER SUPPORT AND ENABLING CAPABILITIES FOR SPECIAL OPERATIONS FORCES.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 9 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 225 the following new section:
``Sec. 226. Special operations forces: display of service-common and 
   other support and enabling capabilities
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall include, in the budget 
materials submitted to Congress under section 1105 of title 31 for 
fiscal year 2021 and any subsequent fiscal year, a consolidated budget 
justification display showing service-common and other support and 
enabling capabilities for special operations forces requested by a 
military service or Defense Agency. Such budget justification display 
shall include any amount for service-common or other capability 
development and acquisition, training, operations, pay, base operations 
sustainment, and other common services and support.
    ``(b) Service-common and Other Support and Enabling Capabilities.--
In this section, the term `service-common and other support and 
enabling capabilities' means capabilities provided in support of 
special operations that are not reflected in Major Force Program-11 or 
designated as special operations forces-peculiar.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
225 the following new item:

``226. Special operations forces: display of service-common and other 
          support and enabling capabilities.''.
SEC. 1008. ELEMENT IN ANNUAL REPORTS ON THE FINANCIAL IMPROVEMENT AND 
AUDIT REMEDIATION PLAN ON ACTIVITIES WITH RESPECT TO CLASSIFIED 
PROGRAMS.
    Section 240b(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (B), as amended by section 1003, by adding 
    at the end the following new clause:
                ``(xi) A description of audit activities and results 
            for classified programs, including a description of the use 
            of procedures and requirements to prevent unauthorized 
            exposure of classified information in such activities.''; 
            and
        (2) in subparagraph (C)(i), by inserting ``or (ix)'' after 
    ``clause (vii)''.
SEC. 1009. PLAN OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FOR FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT 
INFORMATION.
    (a) Element on Support of NDS by Corrective Action Plans.--Section 
240b(b)(1)(B) of title 10, United States Code, as amended by section 
1008 of this Act, is further amended by adding at the end the following 
new clause:
                ``(xii) An identification the manner in which the 
            corrective action plan or plans of each department, agency, 
            component, or element of the Department of Defense, and the 
            corrective action plan of the Department as a whole, 
            support the National Defense Strategy (NDS) of the United 
            States.''.
    (b) Technical Amendment.--Clause (i) of such section is amended by 
striking ``section 253a'' and inserting ``section 240c''.
    (c) Annual Reports on Funding for Corrective Action Plans.--Not 
later than five days after the submittal to Congress under section 
1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, of the budget of the President 
for any fiscal year after fiscal year 2020, the Secretary of Defense 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a reporting 
setting forth a detailed estimate of the funding required for such 
fiscal year to procure, obtain, or otherwise implement each process, 
system, and technology identified to address the current corrective 
action plans of the departments, agencies, components, and elements of 
the Department of Defense, and the corrective action plan of the 
Department as a whole, for purposes of chapter 9A of title 10, United 
States Code, during such fiscal year.
SEC. 1010. UPDATE OF AUTHORITIES AND RENAMING OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
ACQUISITION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT FUND.
    (a) Renaming as Account.--
        (1) In general.--Section 1705 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``the `Department of 
        Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Fund' (in this 
        section referred to as the `Fund')'' and inserting ``the 
        `Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development 
        Account' (in this section referred to as the `Account')''; and
            (B) by striking ``Fund'' each place it appears (other than 
        subsection (e)(6)) and inserting ``Account''.
        (2) Conforming and clerical amendments.--
            (A) Section heading.--The heading of such section is 
        amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 1705. Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development 
    Account''.
            (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of subchapter I of chapter 87 of such title is 
        amended by striking the item relating to section 1705 and 
        inserting the following new item:

``1705. Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development 
          Account.''.

    (b) Management.--Such section is further amended by striking 
``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
Logistics'' each place it appears and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment''.
    (c) Appropriations as Sole Elements of Account.--Subsection (d) of 
such section is amended to read as follows:
    ``(d) Elements.--The Account shall consist of amounts appropriated 
to the Account by law.''.
    (d) Availability of Amounts in Account.--Subsection (e)(6) of such 
section is amended by striking ``credited to the Fund'' and all that 
follows and inserting ``appropriated to the Account pursuant to 
subsection (d) shall remain available for expenditure for the fiscal 
year in which appropriated and the succeeding fiscal year.''.
    (e) Effective Date.--
        (1) In general.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
    effect on October 1, 2019, and shall apply with respect to fiscal 
    years that begin on or after that date.
        (2) Duration of availability of previously deposited funds.--
    Nothing in the amendments made by this section shall modify the 
    duration of availability of amounts in the Department of Defense 
    Acquisition Workforce Development Fund that were appropriated or 
    credited to, or deposited, in the Fund, before October 1, 2019, as 
    provided for in section 1705(e)(6) of title 10, United States Code, 
    as in effect on the day before such date.
SEC. 1011. TRANSPARENCY OF ACCOUNTING FIRMS USED TO SUPPORT DEPARTMENT 
OF DEFENSE AUDIT.
    Section 1006 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``For all contract actions'' and inserting 
    ``(a) In General.--For all contract actions''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subsections
    ``(b) Treatment of Statement.--A statement setting forth the 
details of a disciplinary proceeding submitted pursuant to subsection 
(a), and the information contained in such a statement, shall be--
        ``(1) treated as confidential to the extent required by the 
    court or agency in which the proceeding has occurred; and
        ``(2) treated in a manner consistent with any protections or 
    privileges established by any other provision of Federal law.''.
SEC. 1012. MODIFICATION OF REQUIRED ELEMENTS OF ANNUAL REPORTS ON 
EMERGENCY AND EXTRAORDINARY EXPENSES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    Paragraph (2) of section 127(d) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(2) Each report submitted under paragraph (1) shall include, for 
each individual expenditure covered by such report in an amount in 
excess of $100,000, the following:
        ``(A) A detailed description of the purpose of such 
    expenditure.
        ``(B) The amount of such expenditure.
        ``(C) An identification of the approving authority for such 
    expenditure.
        ``(D) A justification why other authorities available to the 
    Department could not be used for such expenditure.
        ``(E) Any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate.''.

                   Subtitle B--Counterdrug Activities

SEC. 1021. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO SUPPORT A UNIFIED COUNTERDRUG 
AND COUNTERTERRORISM CAMPAIGN IN COLOMBIA.
    (a) Organizations With Respect to Which Assistance May Be 
Provided.--Subsection (a) of section 1021 of the Ronald W. Reagan 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Public Law 
108-375; 118 Stat. 2042), as most recently amended by section 1011(1) 
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public 
Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1545), is further amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``organizations designated 
    as'' and all that follows and inserting ``the Revolutionary Armed 
    Forces of Colombia (FARC), the National Liberation Army (ELN), the 
    United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia (AUC), and any covered 
    organization that the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of 
    the Secretary of State, determines poses a threat to the national 
    security interests of the United States.'';
        (2) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
        (3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
    paragraph (2):
    ``(2) For purposes of paragraph (1), a covered organization is any 
foreign terrorist organization, or other organization that is a non-
state armed group, that--
        ``(A) promotes illicit economies;
        ``(B) employs violence to protect its interests;
        ``(C) has a military type structure, tactics, and weapons that 
    provide it the ability to carry out large-scale violence;
        ``(D) challenges the security response capacity of Colombia; 
    and
        ``(E) has the capability to control territory.''.
    (b) Notice on Assistance.--Such section is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections (f) 
    and (g), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
    subsection (e):
    ``(e) Notice on Assistance With Respect to Covered Organizations.--
(1) Not later than 30 days before providing assistance pursuant to the 
authority in subsection (a) with respect to a covered organization, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
Congress a written notification of the intent to use such authority 
with respect to such organization, including the name of such 
organization, the characteristics of such organization, and threat 
posed by such organization.
    ``(2) In this subsection, the term `appropriate committees of 
Congress' means--
        ``(A) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
        ``(B) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.''.
SEC. 1022. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR JOINT TASK FORCES TO PROVIDE 
SUPPORT TO LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES CONDUCTING COUNTER-TERRORISM 
ACTIVITIES.
    (a) Extension.--Subsection (b) of section 1022 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (Public Law 108-136; 10 
U.S.C. 271 note) is amended by striking ``2020'' and inserting 
``2022''.
    (b) Technical Corrections.--Subsection (e) of such section is 
amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting a period at the end; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following paragraph (2):
    ``(2) For purposes of applying the definition of transnational 
organized crime under paragraph (1) to this section, the term `illegal 
means', as it appears in such definition, includes the trafficking of 
money, human trafficking, illicit financial flows, illegal trade in 
natural resources and wildlife, trade in illegal drugs and weapons, and 
other forms of illegal means determined by the Secretary of Defense.''.
SEC. 1023. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
COUNTERDRUG ACTIVITIES IN THE TRANSIT ZONE AND CARIBBEAN BASIN.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) combating transnational criminal organizations and illicit 
    narcotics trafficking across the transit zone and the Caribbean 
    basin is critical to the national security of the United States;
        (2) the Department of Defense should work with the Department 
    of Homeland Security, the Department of State, and other relevant 
    Federal, State, local, and international partners to improve 
    surveillance capabilities and maximize the effectiveness of 
    counterdrug operations in the region; and
        (3) the Secretary of Defense should, to the greatest extent 
    possible, ensure United States Northern Command and United States 
    Southern Command have the necessary assets to support and increase 
    counter-drug activities within their respective areas of operations 
    in the transit zone and the Caribbean basin.
SEC. 1024. ASSESSMENT OF IMPACT OF ANY PLANNED OR PROPOSED BORDER WALL 
ON VOLUME OF ILLEGAL NARCOTICS.
    (a) Assessment Required.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
with the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall conduct an assessment of 
the impact that any planned or proposed border wall construction under 
section 284 or 2808 of title 10, United States Code, along the southern 
border of the United States would have on the volume of illegal 
narcotics entering the United States.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland 
Security shall jointly submit to Congress a report on the assessment 
required by subsection (a).

                       Subtitle C--Naval Vessels

SEC. 1031. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE VESSELS USING FUNDS IN 
NATIONAL DEFENSE SEALIFT FUND.
    (a) In General.--Section 2218(f)(3)(E) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
        (1) in clause (i), by striking ``ten new sealift vessels'' and 
    inserting ``ten new vessels that are sealift vessels, auxiliary 
    vessels, or a combination of such vessels''; and
        (2) in clause (ii), by striking ``sealift''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on October 1, 2019, and shall apply with respect to fiscal 
years beginning on or after that date.
SEC. 1032. USE OF NATIONAL DEFENSE SEALIFT FUND FOR PROCUREMENT OF TWO 
USED VESSELS.
    Pursuant to section 2218(f)(3) of title 10, United States Code, and 
using amounts authorized to be appropriated for Operation and 
Maintenance, Navy, for fiscal year 2020, the Secretary of the Navy 
shall seek to enter into a contract for the procurement of two used 
vessels.
SEC. 1033. TRANSPORTATION BY SEA OF SUPPLIES FOR THE ARMED FORCES AND 
DEFENSE AGENCIES.
    Section 2631 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in the first sentence of subsection (a), by inserting ``or 
    for a Defense Agency'' after ``Marine Corps''; and
        (2) in subsection (b)--
            (A) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs 
        (3) and (4), respectively;
            (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
        paragraph (2):
    ``(2) Before entering into a contract for the transportation by sea 
of fuel products under this section, the Secretary shall provide a 
minimum variance of three days on the shipment date.''; and
            (C) in paragraph (4), as redesignated by subparagraph (A), 
        by striking ``the requirement described in paragraph (1)'' and 
        insert ``a requirement under paragraph (1) or (2)''.
SEC. 1034. SENIOR TECHNICAL AUTHORITY FOR EACH NAVAL VESSEL CLASS.
    (a) Senior Technical Authority for Each Class Required.--Chapter 
863 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after 
section 8669a the following new section:
``Sec. 8669b. Senior Technical Authority for each naval vessel class
    ``(a) Senior Technical Authority.--
        ``(1) Designation for each vessel class required.--The 
    Secretary of the Navy shall designate, in writing, a Senior 
    Technical Authority for each class of naval vessels as follows:
            ``(A) In the case of a class of vessels which has received 
        Milestone A approval, an approval to enter into technology 
        maturation and risk reduction, or an approval to enter into a 
        subsequent Department of Defense or Department of the Navy 
        acquisition phase as of the date of the enactment of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, not 
        later than 30 days after such date of enactment.
            ``(B) In the case of any class of vessels which has not 
        received any approval described in subparagraph (A) as of such 
        date of enactment, at or before the first of such approvals.
        ``(2) Individuals eligible for designation.--Each individual 
    designated as a Senior Technical Authority under paragraph (1) 
    shall be an employee of the Navy in the Senior Executive Service in 
    an organization of the Navy that--
            ``(A) possesses the technical expertise required to carry 
        out the responsibilities specified in subsection (b); and
            ``(B) operates independently of chains-of-command for 
        acquisition program management.
        ``(3) Term.--Each Senior Technical Authority shall be 
    designated for a fixed term, not shorter than the time anticipated 
    to establish demonstrated successful performance of the class of 
    vessels concerned in accordance with its approved capabilities 
    document, as determined by the Secretary at the time of 
    designation.
        ``(4) Voluntary departure.--If an individual designated as a 
    Senior Technical Authority voluntarily departs the position before 
    demonstrated successful performance of the class of vessels 
    concerned, the Secretary shall designate, in writing, a 
    replacement, and shall notify, in writing, the congressional 
    defense committees not later than 90 days after such departure.
        ``(5) Removal.--An individual may be removed involuntarily from 
    designation as a Senior Technical Authority only by the Secretary. 
    Not later than 15 days after the involuntary removal of an 
    individual from such designation, the Secretary shall notify, in 
    writing, the congressional defense committees of the removal, 
    including the reasons for the removal. Not later than 90 days after 
    the involuntary removal, the Secretary shall designate, in writing, 
    a replacement, and shall notify, in writing, the congressional 
    defense committees of such designation.
        ``(6) Reassignment for mission needs.--Subject to paragraphs 
    (4) and (5), the Secretary may reassign a Senior Technical 
    Authority or remove an individual from designation as a Senior 
    Technical Authority in furtherance of Department of the Navy 
    mission needs.
    ``(b) Responsibilities and Authority.--Each Senior Technical 
Authority shall be responsible for, and have the authority to, 
establish, monitor, and approve technical standards, tools, and 
processes for the class of naval vessels for which designated under 
this section in conformance with applicable laws and Department of 
Defense and Department of the Navy policies, requirements, 
architectures, and standards.
    ``(c) Limitation on Obligation of Funds on Lead Vessel in Vessel 
Class.--
        ``(1) In general.--On or after January 1, 2021, funds 
    authorized to be appropriated for Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy 
    or Other Procurement, Navy may not be obligated for the first time 
    on the lead vessel in a class of naval vessels unless the Secretary 
    of the Navy certifies as described in paragraph (2).
        ``(2) Certification elements.--The certification on a class of 
    naval vessels described in this paragraph is a certification 
    containing each of the following:
            ``(A) The name or names of the individual or individuals 
        designated as the Senior Technical Authority for such class of 
        vessels, and the qualifications and professional biography or 
        biographies of the individual or individuals so designated.
            ``(B) A description by the Senior Technical Authority of 
        the systems engineering, technology, and ship integration risks 
        for such class of vessels.
            ``(C) The designation by the Senior Technical Authority of 
        each critical hull, mechanical, electrical, propulsion, and 
        combat system of such class of vessels, including systems 
        relating to power generation, power distribution, and key 
        operational mission areas.
            ``(D) The date on which the Senior Technical Authority 
        approved the systems engineering, engineering development, and 
        land-based engineering and testing plans for such class of 
        vessels.
            ``(E) A description by the Senior Technical Authority of 
        the key technical knowledge objectives and demonstrated system 
        performance of each plan approved as described in subparagraph 
        (D).
            ``(F) A determination by the Senior Technical Authority 
        that such plans are sufficient to achieve thorough technical 
        knowledge of critical systems of such class of vessels before 
        the start of detail design and construction.
            ``(G) A determination by the Senior Technical Authority 
        that actual execution of activities in support of such plans as 
        of the date of the certification have been and continue to be 
        effective and supportive of the acquisition schedule for such 
        class of vessels.
            ``(H) A description by the Senior Technical Authority of 
        other technology maturation and risk reduction efforts not 
        included in such plans for such class of vessels taken as of 
        the date of the certification.
            ``(I) A certification by the Senior Technical Authority 
        that each critical system covered by subparagraph (C) has been 
        demonstrated through testing of a prototype or identical 
        component in its final form, fit, and function in a realistic 
        environment.
            ``(J) A determination by the Secretary that the plans 
        approved as described in subparagraph (D) are fully funded and 
        will be fully funded in the future-years defense program for 
        the fiscal year beginning in the year in which the 
        certification is submitted.
            ``(K) A determination by the Secretary that the Senior 
        Technical Authority will approve, in writing, the ship 
        specification for such class of vessels before the request for 
        proposals for detail design, construction, or both, as 
        applicable, is released.
        ``(3) Deadline for submittal of certification.--The 
    certification required by this subsection with respect to a class 
    of naval vessels shall be submitted, in writing, to the 
    congressional defense committees not fewer than 30 days before the 
    Secretary obligates for the first time funds authorized to be 
    appropriated for Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy or Other 
    Procurement, Navy for the lead vessel in such class of naval 
    vessels.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `class of naval vessels'--
            ``(A) means any group of similar undersea or surface craft 
        procured with Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy or Other 
        Procurement, Navy funds, including manned, unmanned, and 
        optionally-manned craft; and
            ``(B) includes--
                ``(i) a substantially new class of craft (including 
            craft procured using `new start' procurement); and
                ``(ii) a class of craft undergoing a significant 
            incremental change in its existing class (such as a next 
            `flight' of destroyers or next `block' of attack 
            submarines).
        ``(2) The term `future-years defense program' has the meaning 
    given that term in section 221 of this title.
        ``(3) The term `Milestone A approval' has the meaning given 
    that term in section 2431a of this title.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 863 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 8669a the following new item:

``8669b. Senior Technical Authority for each naval vessel class.''.
SEC. 1035. PERMANENT AUTHORITY FOR SUSTAINING OPERATIONAL READINESS OF 
LITTORAL COMBAT SHIPS ON EXTENDED DEPLOYMENT.
    Section 8680(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (C)(ii)--
            (A) by striking ``means preservation or corrosion control 
        efforts and cleaning services'' and inserting ``means--''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new subclauses:
            ``(I) the effort required to provide housekeeping services 
        throughout the ship;
            ``(II) the effort required to perform coating maintenance 
        and repair to exterior and interior surfaces due to normal 
        environmental conditions; and
            ``(III) the effort required to clean mechanical spaces, 
        mission zones, and topside spaces.''; and
        (2) by striking subparagraph (D).
SEC. 1036. FORMAL TRAINING FOR SHIPBOARD SYSTEM PROGRAMS OF RECORD.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Navy shall ensure that there 
is formal training provided for any shipboard system that is a program 
of record on any Navy surface vessel.
    (b) Timline for Implementation.--
        (1) Current programs.--In the case of any shipboard system 
    program of record that is in use as of the date of the enactment of 
    this Act for which no formal training is available, the Secretary 
    shall ensure that such training is available by not later than 12 
    months after the date of the enactment of this Act.
        (2) Future programs.--In the case of any shipboard system 
    program of record that is first accepted by the Government after 
    the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall ensure 
    that formal training is established for such program by not later 
    than 12 months after the date on which the shipboard system program 
    of record is first accepted by the Government.
SEC. 1037. REPORT ON SHIPBUILDER TRAINING AND THE DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL 
BASE.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of 
Labor, shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services and the 
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and 
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Education and 
Labor of the House of Representatives a report on shipbuilder training 
and hiring requirements necessary to achieve the Navy's 30-year 
shipbuilding plan and to maintain the shipbuilding readiness of the 
defense industrial base. Such report shall include each of the 
following:
        (1) An analysis and estimate of the time and investment 
    required for new shipbuilders to gain proficiency in particular 
    shipbuilding occupational specialties, including detailed 
    information about the occupational specialty requirements necessary 
    for construction of naval surface ship and submarine classes to be 
    included in the Navy's 30-year shipbuilding plan.
        (2) An analysis of the age demographics and occupational 
    experience level (measured in years of experience) of the 
    shipbuilding defense industrial workforce.
        (3) An analysis of the potential time and investment challenges 
    associated with developing and retaining shipbuilding skills in 
    organizations that lack intermediate levels of shipbuilding 
    experience.
        (4) Recommendations concerning how to address shipbuilder 
    training during periods of demographic transition, including 
    whether emerging technologies, such as augmented reality, may aid 
    in new shipbuilder training.
        (5) Recommendations concerning how to encourage young adults to 
    enter the defense shipbuilding industry and to develop the skills 
    necessary to support the shipbuilding defense industrial base.
SEC. 1038. USE OF COMPETITIVE PROCEDURES FOR CVN-80 AND CVN-81 DUAL 
AIRCRAFT CARRIER CONTRACT.
    To the extent practicable and unless otherwise required by law, the 
Secretary of the Navy shall ensure that competitive procedures are used 
with respect to any task order or delivery order issued under a dual 
aircraft carrier contract relating to the CVN-80 and CVN-81.
SEC. 1039. REPORT ON EXPANDING NAVAL VESSEL MAINTENANCE.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than May 1, 2020, the Secretary of 
the Navy shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
on the feasibility and advisability of allowing maintenance to be 
performed on a naval vessel at a shipyard other than a homeport 
shipyard of the vessel.
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        (1) An assessment of the ability of homeport shipyards to meet 
    the current naval vessel maintenance demands.
        (2) An assessment of the ability of homeport shipyards to meet 
    the naval vessel maintenance demands of the force structure 
    assessment requirement of the Navy for a 355-ship navy.
        (3) An assessment of the ability of non-homeport firms to 
    augment repair work at homeport shipyards, including an assessment 
    of the following:
            (A) The capability and proficiency of shipyards in the 
        Great Lakes, Gulf Coast, East Coast, West Coast, and Alaska 
        regions to perform technical repair work on naval vessels at 
        locations other than their homeports.
            (B) The improvements to the capability and capacity of 
        shipyards in the Great Lakes, Gulf Coast, East Coast, West 
        Coast, and Alaska regions that would be required to enable 
        performance of technical repair work on naval vessels at 
        locations other than their homeports.
            (C) The types of naval vessels (such as noncombatant 
        vessels or vessels that only need limited periods of time in 
        shipyards) best suited for repair work performed by shipyards 
        in locations other than their homeports.
            (D) The potential benefits to fleet readiness of expanding 
        shipyard repair work to include shipyards not located at the 
        homeports of naval vessels.
            (E) The ability of non-homeport firms to maintain surge 
        capacity when homeport shipyards lack the capacity or 
        capability to meet homeport requirements.
        (4) An assessment of the potential benefits of expanding repair 
    work for naval vessels to shipyards not eligible for short-term 
    work in accordance with section 8669a(c) of title 10, United States 
    Code.
        (5) Such other related matters as the Secretary of the Navy 
    considers appropriate.
    (c) Rules of Construction.--
        (1) Requirements relating to construction of combatant and 
    escort vessels and assignment of vessel projects.--Nothing in this 
    section may be construed to override the requirements of section 
    8669a of title 10, United States Code.
        (2) No funding for shipyards of non-homeport firms.--Nothing in 
    this section may be construed to authorize funding for shipyards of 
    non-homeport firms.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Homeport shipyard.--The term ``homeport shipyard'' means a 
    shipyard associated with a firm capable of being awarded short-term 
    work at the homeport of a naval vessel in accordance with section 
    8669a(c) of title 10, United States Code.
        (2) Short-term work.--The term ``short-term work'' has the 
    meaning given that term in section 8669a(c)(4) of such title.

                      Subtitle D--Counterterrorism

SEC. 1041. MODIFICATION OF SUPPORT OF SPECIAL OPERATIONS TO COMBAT 
TERRORISM.
    Section 127e of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``authorized'' before 
    ``ongoing''; and
        (2) in subsection (d)(2)--
            (A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``and a description 
        of the authorized ongoing operation'' before the period at the 
        end;
            (B) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (D);
            (C) by striking subparagraphs (B) and inserting the 
        following new subparagraphs after subparagraph (A):
            ``(B) A description of the foreign forces, irregular 
        forces, groups, or individuals engaged in supporting or 
        facilitating the authorized ongoing operation who will receive 
        support provided under this section.
            ``(C) A detailed description of the support provided or to 
        be provided to the recipient.''; and
            (D) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
            ``(E) A detailed description of the legal and operational 
        authorities related to the authorized ongoing operation, 
        including relevant execute orders issued by the Secretary of 
        Defense and combatant commanders related to the authorized 
        ongoing operation, including an identification of operational 
        activities United States Special Operations Forces are 
        authorized to conduct under such execute orders.
            ``(F) The duration for which the support is expected to be 
        provided and an identification of the timeframe in which the 
        provision of support will be reviewed by the combatant 
        commander for a determination regarding the necessity of 
        continuation of support.''.
SEC. 1042. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR TRANSFER OR 
RELEASE OF INDIVIDUALS DETAINED AT UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, 
GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA, TO CERTAIN COUNTRIES.
    Section 1035 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is amended by striking 
``December 31, 2019'' and inserting ``December 31, 2020''.
SEC. 1043. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR TRANSFER OR 
RELEASE OF INDIVIDUALS DETAINED AT UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, 
GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA, TO THE UNITED STATES.
    Section 1033 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is amended by striking 
``December 31, 2019'' and inserting ``December 31, 2020''.
SEC. 1044. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO CONSTRUCT OR 
MODIFY FACILITIES IN THE UNITED STATES TO HOUSE DETAINEES TRANSFERRED 
FROM UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA.
    Section 1034(a) of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is amended 
by striking ``December 31, 2019'' and inserting ``December 31, 2020''.
SEC. 1045. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO CLOSE OR 
RELINQUISH CONTROL OF UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, 
CUBA.
    Section 1036 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1551), as amended by section 
1032 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1953), is further 
amended by striking ``or 2019'' and inserting ``, 2019, or 2020''.
SEC. 1046. CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER AT UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, 
GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA.
    (a) Chief Medical Officer.--
        (1) In general.--There shall be at United States Naval Station, 
    Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, a Chief Medical Officer of United States 
    Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay (in this section referred to as the 
    ``Chief Medical Officer'').
        (2) Grade.--The individual serving as Chief Medical Officer 
    shall be an officer of the Armed Forces who holds a grade not below 
    the grade of colonel, or captain in the Navy.
        (3) Chain of command.--Notwithstanding sections 162 and 164 of 
    title 10, United States Code, the Chief Medical Officer shall be 
    assigned and report to the Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
    Health Affairs, with duty at United States Naval Station, 
    Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, in the performance of duties and the exercise 
    of powers of the Chief Medical Officer under this section.
    (b) Duties.--
        (1) In general.--The Chief Medical Officer shall oversee the 
    provision of medical care to individuals detained at Guantanamo.
        (2) Quality of care.--The Chief Medical Officer shall ensure 
    that medical care provided as described in paragraph (1) meets 
    applicable standards of care.
    (c) Powers.--
        (1) In general.--The Chief Medical Officer shall make medical 
    determinations relating to medical care for individuals detained at 
    Guantanamo, including--
            (A) decisions regarding assessment, diagnosis, and 
        treatment; and
            (B) determinations concerning medical accommodations to 
        living conditions and operating procedures for detention 
        facilities.
        (2) Resolution of declination to follow determinations.--If the 
    commander of Joint Task Force Guantanamo or the Commander of United 
    States Southern Command declines to follow a determination of the 
    Chief Medical Officer under paragraph (1), the matter covered by 
    such determination shall be resolved by the Assistant Secretary of 
    Defense for Health Affairs, in consultation with the Assistant 
    Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity 
    Conflict, not later than seven days after receipt by both Assistant 
    Secretaries of written notification of the matter from the Chief 
    Medical Officer.
        (3) Security clearances.--The appropriate departments or 
    agencies of the Federal Government shall, to the extent practicable 
    in accordance with existing procedures and requirements, process 
    expeditiously any application and adjudication for a security 
    clearance required by the Chief Medical Officer to carry out the 
    Chief Medical Officer's duties and powers under this section.
    (d) Access to Individuals, Information, and Assistance.--
        (1) In general.--The Chief Medical Officer may secure directly 
    from the Department of Defense access to any individual, 
    information, or assistance that the Chief Medical Officer considers 
    necessary to enable the Chief Medical Officer to carry out this 
    section, including full access to the following:
            (A) Any individual detained at Guantanamo.
            (B) Any medical records of any individual detained at 
        Guantanamo.
            (C) Medical professionals of the Department who are 
        working, or have worked, at United States Naval Station, 
        Guantanamo Bay.
        (2) Access upon request.--Upon request of the Chief Medical 
    Officer, the Department shall make available to the Chief Medical 
    Officer on an expeditious basis access to individuals, information, 
    and assistance as described in paragraph (1).
        (3) Lack of expeditious availability.--If access to 
    individuals, information, or assistance is not made available to 
    the Chief Medical Officer upon request on an expeditious basis as 
    required by paragraph (2), the Chief Medical Officer shall notify 
    the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs and the 
    Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low 
    Intensity Conflict, who shall take actions to resolve the matter 
    expeditiously.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Individual detained at guantanamo defined.--The term 
    ``individual detained at Guantanamo'' means an individual located 
    at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, as of October 
    1, 2009, who--
            (A) is not a national of the United States (as defined in 
        section 101(a)(22) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
        U.S.C. 1101(a)(22)) or a member of the Armed Forces of the 
        United States; and
            (B) is--
                (i) in the custody or under the control of the 
            Department of Defense; or
                (ii) otherwise detained at United States Naval Station, 
            Guantanamo Bay.
        (2) Medical care.--The term ``medical care'' means physical and 
    mental health care.
        (3) Standard of care.--The term ``standard of care'' means 
    evaluation and treatment that is accepted by medical experts and 
    reflected in peer-reviewed medical literature as the appropriate 
    medical approach for a condition, symptoms, illness, or disease and 
    that is widely used by healthcare professionals.
SEC. 1047. INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT ON GENDER AND COUNTERING VIOLENT 
EXTREMISM.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the 
Secretary of State, shall seek to enter into a contract with a 
nonprofit entity or a federally funded research and development center 
independent of the Department of Defense and the Department of State to 
conduct research and analysis on the relationship between gender and 
violent extremism.
    (b) Elements.--The research and analysis conducted under subsection 
(a) shall include consideration of the following:
        (1) The probable causes and historical trends of women's 
    participation in violent extremist organizations.
        (2) Potential ways in which women's participation in violent 
    extremism is likely to change in the near- and medium-term.
        (3) The relationship between violent extremism and each of the 
    following:
            (A) Gender-based violence, abduction, and human 
        trafficking.
            (B) The perceived role or value of women at the community 
        level, including with respect to property and inheritance 
        rights and bride-price and dowry.
            (C) Community opinions of killing or harming of women.
            (D) Violations of girls' rights, including child, early, 
        and forced marriage and access to education.
        (4) Ways for the Department of Defense to engage and support 
    women and girls who are vulnerable to extremist behavior and 
    activities as a means to counter violent extremism and terrorism.
    (c) Utilization.--The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
State shall utilize the results of the research and analysis conducted 
under subsection (a) to inform the strategic and operational objectives 
of the geographic combatant command, where appropriate. Such 
utilization shall be in accordance with the Women, Peace, and Security 
Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-68; 22 U.S.C. 2152j et seq.).
    (d) Reports.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the nonprofit entity or federally funded 
    research and development center with which the Secretary of Defense 
    enters into the contract under subsection (a) shall submit to the 
    Secretary of Defense and Secretary of State a report on the results 
    of the research and analysis required by subsection (a).
        (2) Submission to congress.--Not later than one year after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
    submit to the appropriate congressional committees each of the 
    following:
            (A) A copy of the report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        without change.
            (B) Any comments, changes, recommendations, or other 
        information provided by the Secretary of Defense and the 
        Secretary of State relating to the research and analysis 
        required by subsection (a) and contained in such report.
        (3) Appropriate congressional committees.--In this paragraph, 
    the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the congressional defense committees;
            (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
        the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives; and
            (C) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        House of Representatives and the Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the Senate.

         Subtitle E--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

SEC. 1051. SCHEDULING OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EXECUTIVE AIRCRAFT 
CONTROLLED BY SECRETARIES OF MILITARY DEPARTMENTS.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 2 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 120. Department of Defense executive aircraft controlled by 
   Secretaries of military departments
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the 
Chief of the Air Force Special Air Mission Office is given the 
responsibility for coordination of scheduling all Department of Defense 
executive aircraft controlled by the Secretaries of the military 
departments in order to support required use travelers.
    ``(b) Responsibilities.--(1) Not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this section, the Secretary of each of the military 
departments shall execute a memorandum of understanding with the Air 
Force Special Air Mission Office regarding oversight and management of 
executive aircraft controlled by that military department.
    ``(2) The Secretary of Defense shall be responsible for 
prioritizing travel when requests exceed available executive airlift 
capability.
    ``(3) The Secretary of a military department shall maintain overall 
authority for scheduling the required use travelers of that military 
department on executive aircraft controlled by the Secretary. When an 
executive aircraft controlled by the Secretary of a military department 
is not supporting required use travelers of that military department, 
the Secretary of the military department shall make such executive 
aircraft available for scheduling of other required use travelers.
    ``(c) Limitations.--(1) The Secretary of Defense may not establish 
a new command and control organization to support aircraft.
    ``(2) No executive aircraft controlled by the Secretary of a 
military department may be permanently stationed at any location 
without a required use traveler without the approval of the Secretary 
of Defense.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `required use traveler' has the meaning given 
    such term in Department of Defense directive 4500.56, as in effect 
    on the date of the enactment of this section.
        ``(2) The term `executive aircraft' has the meaning given such 
    term in Department of Defense directive 4500.43, as in effect on 
    the date of the enactment of this section.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``120. Department of Defense executive aircraft controlled by 
          Secretaries of military departments.''.
SEC. 1052. EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DEFENSE DISPOSAL PROGRAM.
    (a) Roles, Responsibilities, and Authorities.--Subsection (b) of 
section 2284 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3);
        (2) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``and'' after the 
        semicolon;
            (B) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as paragraph (2), 
        moving it to appear after paragraph (1), and adjusting the 
        margins accordingly;
            (C) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (B);
            (D) in subparagraph (B), as so redesignated--
                (i) by striking ``joint program executive officer who'' 
            and inserting ``training and technology program that'';
                (ii) by inserting ``, provides common individual 
            training,'' after ``explosive ordnance disposal'';
                (iii) by striking ``and procurement'';
                (iv) by inserting ``for common tools'' after 
            ``activities'';
                (v) by striking ``and combatant commands''; and
            (E) by striking subparagraphs (D) and (E);
        (3) in paragraph (2), as redesignated by paragraph (2)(B) of 
    this subsection, by inserting ``(A)'' after ``paragraph (1)'';
        (4) in paragraph (3), as redesignated by paragraph (1) of this 
    subsection, by striking ``such as weapon systems, manned and 
    unmanned vehicles and platforms, cyber and communication equipment, 
    and the integration of explosive ordnance disposal sets, kits and 
    outfits and explosive ordnance disposal tools, equipment, sets, 
    kits, and outfits developed by the department.'' and inserting ``; 
    and''; and
        (5) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(4) the Secretary of the Army shall designate an Army 
    explosive ordnance disposal-qualified general officer to serve as 
    the co-chair of the Department of Defense explosive ordnance 
    disposal defense program.''.
    (b) Definitions.--Such section is further amended by adding at the 
end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `explosive ordnance' has the meaning given such 
    term in section 283(d) of this title.
        ``(2) The term `explosive ordnance disposal' means the 
    detection, identification, on-site evaluation, rendering safe, 
    exploitation, recovery, and final disposal of explosive 
    ordnance.''.
SEC. 1053. TECHNICAL CORRECTION AND EXTENSION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENT 
REGARDING ENHANCEMENT OF INFORMATION SHARING AND COORDINATION OF 
MILITARY TRAINING BETWEEN DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY AND 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    Section 1014 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``section 371 of title 10, United States Code'' 
    each place it appears and inserting ``section 271 of title 10, 
    United States Code''; and
        (2) in subsection (d)(3) by striking ``January 31, 2020'' and 
    inserting ``December 31, 2022''.
SEC. 1054. NOTIFICATION ON THE PROVISION OF DEFENSE SENSITIVE SUPPORT.
    Section 1055(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 10 U.S.C. 113 note) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (2)--
            (A) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (E); 
        and
            (B) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following new 
        subparagraphs:
            ``(C) A description of the required duration of the 
        support.
            ``(D) A description of the initial costs for the 
        support.''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(5) Sustainment costs.--If the Secretary determines that 
    sustainment costs will be incurred as a result of the provision of 
    defense sensitive support, the Secretary, not later than 15 days 
    after the initial provision of such support, shall certify to the 
    congressional defense committees (and the congressional 
    intelligence committees with respect to matters relating to members 
    of the intelligence community) that such sustainment costs will not 
    interfere with the ability of the Department to execute operations, 
    accomplish mission objectives, and maintain readiness.''.
SEC. 1055. REVISION TO AUTHORITIES RELATING TO MAIL SERVICE FOR MEMBERS 
OF THE ARMED FORCES AND DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CIVILIANS OVERSEAS.
    (a) Eligibility for Free Mail.--Section 3401(a) of title 39, United 
States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a)(1) First-class letter mail having the character of personal 
correspondence shall be carried, at no cost to the sender, in the 
manner provided by this section, when mailed by an eligible individual 
described in paragraph (2) and addressed to a place within the delivery 
limits of a United States post office, if--
        ``(A) such letter mail is mailed by the eligible individual at 
    an Armed Forces post office established in an overseas area 
    designated by the President, where the Armed Forces of the United 
    States are deployed for a contingency operation as determined by 
    the Secretary of Defense; or
        ``(B) the eligible individual is hospitalized as a result of 
    disease or injury incurred as a result of service in an overseas 
    area designated by the President under subparagraph (A).
    ``(2) An eligible individual described in this paragraph is--
        ``(A) a member of the Armed Forces of the United States on 
    active duty, as defined in section 101 of title 10; or
        ``(B) a civilian employee of the Department of Defense or a 
    military department who is providing support to military 
    operations.''.
    (b) Surface Shipment of Mail Authorized.--Section 3401 of title 39, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (c);
        (2) by redesignating subsections (d), (e), (f), and (g) as 
    subsections (c), (d), (e), and (f), respectively; and
        (3) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
    ``(b) There shall be transported by surface or air, consistent with 
the service purchased by the mailer, between Armed Forces post offices 
or from an Armed Forces post office to a point of entry into the United 
States, the following categories of mail matter which are mailed at any 
such Armed Forces post office:
        ``(1) Letter mail communications having the character of 
    personal correspondence.
        ``(2) Any parcel exceeding 1 pound in weight but less than 70 
    pounds in weight and less than 130 inches in length and girth 
    combined.
        ``(3) Publications published not less frequently than once per 
    week and featuring principally current news of interest to members 
    of the Armed Forces of the United States and the general public.''.
    (c) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) Section 3401 of title 39, United States Code, is amended in 
    the section heading by striking ``and of friendly foreign 
    nations''.
        (2) The table of sections for chapter 34 of title 39, United 
    States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to section 
    3401 and inserting the following:

``3401. Mailing privileges of members of Armed Forces of the United 
          States.''.
SEC. 1056. ACCESS TO AND USE OF MILITARY POST OFFICES BY UNITED STATES 
CITIZENS EMPLOYED OVERSEAS BY THE NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION 
WHO PERFORM FUNCTIONS IN SUPPORT OF MILITARY OPERATIONS OF THE ARMED 
FORCES.
    Section 406 of title 39, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(c)(1) The Secretary of Defense may authorize the use of a post 
office established under subsection (a) in a location outside the 
United States by citizens of the United States--
        ``(A) who--
            ``(i) are employed by the North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization; and
            ``(ii) perform functions in support of the Armed Forces of 
        the United States; and
        ``(B) if the Secretary makes a written determination that such 
    use is--
            ``(i) in the best interests of the Department of Defense; 
        and
            ``(ii) otherwise authorized by applicable host nation law 
        or agreement.
    ``(2) No funds may be obligated or expended to establish, maintain, 
or expand a post office established under subsection (a) for the 
purpose of use described in paragraph (1) of this subsection.''.
SEC. 1057. EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE 
AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
    (a) In General.--Subject to subsections (b) and (c), the Secretary 
of Defense may expend amounts made available for the Military 
Intelligence Program for any of fiscal years 2020 through 2025 for 
intelligence and counterintelligence activities for any purpose the 
Secretary determines to be proper with regard to intelligence and 
counterintelligence objects of a confidential, extraordinary, or 
emergency nature. Such a determination is final and conclusive upon the 
accounting officers of the United States.
    (b) Limitation on Amount.--The Secretary of Defense may not expend 
more than five percent of the amounts described in subsection (a) for 
any fiscal year for objects described in that subsection unless--
        (1) the Secretary notifies the congressional defense committees 
    and the congressional intelligence committees of the intent to 
    expend the amounts and purpose of the expenditure; and
        (2) 30 days have elapsed from the date on which the Secretary 
    provides the notice described in paragraph (1).
    (c) Certification.--For each expenditure of funds under this 
section, the Secretary shall certify that such expenditure was made for 
an object of a confidential, extraordinary, or emergency nature.
    (d) Report.--Not later than December 31 of each of 2020 through 
2025, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees and the congressional intelligence committees a 
report on expenditures made under this section during the fiscal year 
preceding the year in which the report is submitted. Each such report 
shall include, for each expenditure under this section during the 
fiscal year covered by the report, a description, the purpose, the 
program element, and the certification required under section (c).
    (e) Limitation on Delegations.--The Secretary of Defense may not 
delegate the authority under this section with respect to any 
expenditure in excess of $100,000.
    (f) Congressional Intelligence Committees Defined.--In this 
section, the term ``congressional intelligence committees'' means--
        (1) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
        (2) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
    of Representatives.
SEC. 1058. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR THE INACTIVATION OF ARMY 
WATERCRAFT UNITS.
    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
otherwise made available for fiscal year 2020 may be obligated or 
expended for the inactivation of any Army watercraft unit until the 
Secretary of Defense submits to Congress certification that--
        (1) the Secretary has completed the Army Watercraft 
    Requirements Review; and
        (2) the Secretary has entered into a contract with a federally 
    funded research and development corporation for the review of the 
    ability of the Army to meet the watercraft requirements of the 
    combatant commanders and the effects on preparedness to provide 
    support to States and territories in connection with natural 
    disasters, threats, and emergencies.

                  TITLE XI--CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS

                     Subtitle A--General Provisions

Sec. 1101. Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency personnel 
          management authority.
Sec. 1102. Report on the probationary period for Department of Defense 
          employees.
Sec. 1103. Civilian personnel management.
Sec. 1104. One-year extension of temporary authority to grant 
          allowances, benefits, and gratuities to civilian personnel on 
          official duty in a combat zone.
Sec. 1105. One-year extension of authority to waive annual limitation on 
          premium pay and aggregate limitation on pay for Federal 
          civilian employees working overseas.
Sec. 1106. Performance of civilian functions by military personnel.
Sec. 1107. Extension of direct hire authority for domestic industrial 
          base facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base.
Sec. 1108. Authority to provide additional allowances and benefits for 
          certain Defense Clandestine Service employees.
Sec. 1109. Modification of direct hire authorities for the Department of 
          Defense.
Sec. 1110. Designating certain FEHBP and FEGLI services provided by 
          Federal employees as excepted services under the Anti-
          Deficiency Act.
Sec. 1111. Continuing supplemental dental and vision benefits and long-
          term care insurance coverage during a Government shutdown.
Sec. 1112. Limitation on transfer of Office of Personnel Management.
Sec. 1113. Assessment of Accelerated Promotion Program suspension.
Sec. 1114. Reimbursement for Federal, State, and local income taxes 
          incurred during travel, transportation, and relocation.
Sec. 1115. Clarification of limitation on expedited hiring authority for 
          post-secondary students.
Sec. 1116. Modification of temporary assignments of Department of 
          Defense employees to a private-sector organization.
Sec. 1117. Extension of authority for part-time reemployment.

                       Subtitle B--Fair Chance Act

Sec. 1121. Short title.
Sec. 1122. Prohibition on criminal history inquiries prior to 
          conditional offer for Federal employment.
Sec. 1123. Prohibition on criminal history inquiries by contractors 
          prior to conditional offer.
Sec. 1124. Report on employment of individuals formerly incarcerated in 
          Federal prisons.

                      Subtitle C--ATC Hiring Reform

Sec. 1131. Short title; definition.
Sec. 1132. Hiring of air traffic control specialists.
Sec. 1133. Ensuring hiring preference for applicants with experience at 
          an air traffic control facility of the National Guard.
Sec. 1134. FAA reports on air traffic controller hiring and training.
Sec. 1135. DOT Inspector General review and report.

                     Subtitle A--General Provisions

SEC. 1101. DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY PERSONNEL 
MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY.
    Section 1599h(b)(1)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
by striking ``100 positions'' and inserting ``140 positions''.
SEC. 1102. REPORT ON THE PROBATIONARY PERIOD FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
EMPLOYEES.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall--
        (1) conduct an independent review on the probationary periods 
    applicable to Department of Defense employees under section 1599e 
    of title 10, United States Code; and
        (2) submit a report on such review to the Committees on Armed 
    Services and Oversight and Reform of the House of Representatives 
    and the Committees on Armed Services and Homeland Security and 
    Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
    (b) Contents.--The review and report under subsection (a) shall 
cover the period beginning on the date of the enactment of such section 
1599e and ending on December 31, 2018, and include the following:
        (1) An assessment and identification of the demographics of 
    each Department of Defense employee who, during such period, was on 
    a probationary period and who was removed from the civil service, 
    subject to any disciplinary action (up to and including removal), 
    or who filed a claim or appeal with the Office of Special Counsel 
    or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
        (2) A statistical assessment of the distribution patterns with 
    respect to any removal from the civil service during such period 
    of, or any disciplinary action (up to and including a removal) 
    taken during such period against, any Department employee while the 
    employee was on a probationary period.
        (3) An analysis of the best practices and abuses of discretion 
    by supervisors and managers of the Department with respect to 
    probationary periods.
        (4) An assessment of the utility of the probationary period 
    prescribed by such section 1599e on the successful recruitment, 
    retention, and professional development of civilian employees of 
    the Department, including any recommendation for regulatory or 
    statutory changes the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
        (5) A discussion of the cases where the Department made a 
    determination to remove a Department employee during the second 
    year of such employee's probationary period.
        (6) A summary of how the Department has implemented the 
    authority provided in such section 1599e with respect to 
    probationary periods, including the number, and a demographic 
    summary, of each Department employee removed from the civil 
    service, subject to any disciplinary action (up to and including 
    removal), or who filed a claim or appeal with the Office of Special 
    Counsel or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission during the 
    second year of any such employee's probationary period.
    (c) Consultation.--The analysis and recommendations in the report 
required under subsection (a) shall be prepared in consultation with 
Department of Defense employees and managers, labor organizations 
representing such employees, staff of the Office of Special Counsel and 
the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and attorneys representing 
Department employees in wrongful termination actions.
SEC. 1103. CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT.
    Section 129 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``each fiscal year'' 
        and inserting ``each fiscal year primarily''; and
            (B) in the second sentence--
                (i) by striking ``Any'' and inserting ``The management 
            of such personnel in any fiscal year shall not be subject 
            solely to any''; and
                (ii) by striking ``shall be developed'' and all that 
            follows through ``changed circumstances''; and
        (2) in subsection (c)(2)--
            (A) in each of subparagraphs (A) and (B), by inserting 
        ``and associated cost'' after each instance of ``projected 
        size''; and
            (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``that have been 
        taken'' and all that follows through the period and inserting 
        ``to reduce the overall costs of the total force of military, 
        civilian, and contract workforces.''.
SEC. 1104. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY AUTHORITY TO GRANT 
ALLOWANCES, BENEFITS, AND GRATUITIES TO CIVILIAN PERSONNEL ON OFFICIAL 
DUTY IN A COMBAT ZONE.
    Paragraph (2) of section 1603(a) of the Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane 
Recovery, 2006 (Public Law 109-234; 120 Stat. 443), as added by section 
1102 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4616) and as most recently 
amended by section 1115 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), is further 
amended by striking ``2020'' and inserting ``2021''.
SEC. 1105. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO WAIVE ANNUAL LIMITATION 
ON PREMIUM PAY AND AGGREGATE LIMITATION ON PAY FOR FEDERAL CIVILIAN 
EMPLOYEES WORKING OVERSEAS.
    Subsection (a) of section 1101 of the Duncan Hunter National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 
Stat. 4615), as most recently amended by section 1104(a) of the John S. 
McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public 
Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2001), is further amended by striking ``through 
2019'' and inserting ``through 2020''.
SEC. 1106. PERFORMANCE OF CIVILIAN FUNCTIONS BY MILITARY PERSONNEL.
    Subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subsection (g) of section 129a 
of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
            ``(B) such functions may be performed by military personnel 
        for a period that does not exceed one year if the Secretary of 
        the military department concerned determines that--
                ``(i) the performance of such functions by military 
            personnel is required to address critical staffing needs 
            resulting from a reduction in personnel or budgetary 
            resources by reason of an Act of Congress; and
                ``(ii) the military department concerned is in 
            compliance with the policies, procedures, and analysis 
            required by this section and section 129 of this title.''.
SEC. 1107. EXTENSION OF DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR DOMESTIC INDUSTRIAL 
BASE FACILITIES AND MAJOR RANGE AND TEST FACILITIES BASE.
    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 1125 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328), as 
amended by subsection (a) of section 1102 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91), is further 
amended by striking ``through 2021,'' and inserting ``through 2025,''.
    (b) Briefing.--Subsection (b) of such section 1102 is amended by 
striking ``fiscal years 2019 and 2021'' and inserting ``fiscal years 
2019 through 2025''.
SEC. 1108. AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ADDITIONAL ALLOWANCES AND BENEFITS FOR 
CERTAIN DEFENSE CLANDESTINE SERVICE EMPLOYEES.
    Section 1603 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Additional Allowances and Benefits for Certain Employees of 
the Defense Clandestine Service.--(1) Beginning on the date on which 
the Secretary of Defense submits the report under paragraph (3)(A), in 
addition to the authority to provide compensation under subsection (a), 
the Secretary may provide a covered employee allowances and benefits 
under paragraph (1) of section 9904 of title 5 without regard to the 
limitations in that section--
        ``(A) that the employee be assigned to activities outside the 
    United States; or
        ``(B) that the activities to which the employee is assigned be 
    in support of Department of Defense activities abroad.
    ``(2) The Secretary may not provide allowances and benefits under 
paragraph (1) to more than 125 covered employees per year.
    ``(3)(A) The Secretary shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees a report containing a strategy addressing the 
mission of the Defense Clandestine Service during the period covered by 
the most recent future-years defense program submitted under section 
221 of this title, including--
        ``(i) how such mission will evolve during such period;
        ``(ii) how the authority provided by paragraph (1) will assist 
    the Secretary in carrying out such mission; and
        ``(iii) an implementation plan for carrying out paragraph (1), 
    including a projection of how much the amount of the allowances and 
    benefits provided under such paragraph compare with the amount of 
    the allowances and benefits provided before the date of the report.
    ``(B) Not later than December 31, 2020, and each year thereafter, 
the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees 
a report, with respect to the fiscal year preceding the date on which 
the report is submitted--
        ``(i) identifying the number of covered employees for whom the 
    Secretary provided allowances and benefits under paragraph (1); and
        ``(ii) evaluating the efficacy of such allowances and benefits 
    in enabling the execution of the objectives of the Defense 
    Intelligence Agency.
    ``(C) The reports under subparagraphs (A) and (B) may be submitted 
in classified form.
    ``(4) In this subsection:
        ``(A) The term `appropriate congressional committees' means--
            ``(i) the congressional defense committees; and
            ``(ii) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of 
        the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the Senate.
        ``(B) The term `covered employee' means an employee in a 
    defense intelligence position who is assigned to the Defense 
    Clandestine Service at a location in the United States that the 
    Secretary determines has living costs equal to or higher than the 
    District of Columbia.''.
SEC. 1109. MODIFICATION OF DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITIES FOR THE DEPARTMENT 
OF DEFENSE.
    (a) In General.--Section 9905 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
        ``(2) Any cyber workforce position.''; and
            (B) by adding afer paragraph (4) the following:
        ``(5) Any scientific, technical, engineering, or mathematics 
    positions, including technicians, within the defense acquisition 
    workforce, or any category of acquisition positions within the 
    Department designated by the Secretary as a shortage or critical 
    need category.
        ``(6) Any scientific, technical, engineering, or mathematics 
    position, except any such position within any defense Scientific 
    and Technology Reinvention Laboratory, for which a qualified 
    candidate is required to possess a bachelor's degree or an advanced 
    degree, or for which a veteran candidate is being considered.
        ``(7) Any category of medical or health professional positions 
    within the Department designated by the Secretary as a shortage 
    category or critical need occupation.
        ``(8) Any childcare services position for which there is a 
    critical hiring need and a shortage of childcare providers.
        ``(9) Any financial management, accounting, auditing, 
    actuarial, cost estimation, operational research, or business or 
    business administration position for which a qualified candidate is 
    required to possess a finance, accounting, management or actuarial 
    science degree or a related degree, or a related degree of 
    equivalent experience.
        ``(10) Any position, as determined by the Secretary, for the 
    purpose of assisting and facilitating the efforts of the Department 
    in business transformation and management innovation.''; and
        (2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Sunset.--
        ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
    effective on September 30, 2025, the authority provided under 
    subsection (a) shall expire.
        ``(2) Exception.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the 
    authority provided under subsection (a) to make appointments to 
    positions described under paragraph (5) of such subsection.
    ``(c) Suspension of Other Hiring Authorities.--During the period 
beginning on the effective date of the regulations issued to carry out 
the hiring authority with respect to positions described in paragraphs 
(5) through (10) of subsection (a) and ending on the date described in 
subsection (b)(1), the Secretary of Defense may not exercise or 
otherwise use any hiring authority provided under the following 
provisions of law:
        ``(1) Sections 1599c(a)(2) and 1705(h) of title 10.
        ``(2) Sections 1112 and 1113 of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 
    Stat. 1033).
        ``(3) Sections 1110 and 1643(a)(3) of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 
    Stat. 2450 and 2602).
        ``(4) Sections 559 and 1101 of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 
    Stat. 1406 and 1627).''.
    (b) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than February 1, 2021, the Secretary 
    of Defense, in coordination with the Director of the Office of 
    Personnel Management, shall provide for the conduct of an 
    independent review and report to the congressional defense 
    committees and the Committee on Oversight and Reform of the House 
    of Representatives.
        (2) Contents.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall--
            (A) assess and identify steps that could be taken to 
        improve the competitive hiring process at the Department and 
        ensure that direct hiring is conducted in a manner consistent 
        with ensuring a merit based civil service and a diverse 
        workforce in the Department and the rest of the Federal 
        Government; and
            (B) consider the feasibility and desirability of using 
        cohort hiring, or hiring ``talent pools'', instead of 
        conducting all hiring on a position-by-position basis.
        (3) Consultation.--The analysis and recommendations in the 
    report required under paragraph (1) shall be prepared in 
    consultation with all stakeholders, public sector unions, hiring 
    managers, career agency, and Office of Personnel Management 
    personnel specialists, and after a survey of public sector 
    employees and job applicants.
SEC. 1110. DESIGNATING CERTAIN FEHBP AND FEGLI SERVICES PROVIDED BY 
FEDERAL EMPLOYEES AS EXCEPTED SERVICES UNDER THE ANTI-DEFICIENCY ACT.
    (a) FEHBP.--Section 8905 of title 5, United States Code, is amended 
by adding at the end the following:
    ``(i) Any services by an officer or employee under this chapter 
relating to enrolling individuals in a health benefits plan under this 
chapter, or changing the enrollment of an individual already so 
enrolled, shall be deemed, for purposes of section 1342 of title 31, 
services for emergencies involving the safety of human life or the 
protection of property.''.
    (b) FEGLI.--Section 8702 of title 5, United States Code, is amended 
by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Any services by an officer or employee under this chapter 
relating to benefits under this chapter shall be deemed, for purposes 
of section 1342 of title 31, services for emergencies involving the 
safety of human life or the protection of property.''.
    (c) Regulations.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Office of Personnel Management shall 
    prescribe regulations to carry out the amendments made by 
    subsections (a) and (b).
        (2) Pay status for furloughed employees.--The regulations 
    prescribed under paragraph (1) for the amendments made by 
    subsection (a) shall provide that an employee furloughed as result 
    of a lapse in appropriations shall, during such lapse, be deemed to 
    be in a pay status for purposes of enrolling or changing the 
    enrollment (as the case may be) of that employee under chapter 89 
    of title 5, United States Code.
    (d) Application.--The amendments made by subsection (a) and (b) 
shall apply to any lapse in appropriations beginning on or after the 
date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 1111. CONTINUING SUPPLEMENTAL DENTAL AND VISION BENEFITS AND LONG-
TERM CARE INSURANCE COVERAGE DURING A GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN.
    (a) In General.--Title 5, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in section 8956, by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Coverage under a dental benefits plan under this chapter for 
any employee or a covered TRICARE-eligible individual enrolled in such 
a plan and who, as a result of a lapse in appropriations, is furloughed 
or excepted from furlough and working without pay shall continue during 
such lapse and may not be cancelled as a result of nonpayment of 
premiums or other periodic charges due to such lapse.'';
        (2) in section 8986, by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Coverage under a vision benefits plan under this chapter for 
any employee or a covered TRICARE-eligible individual enrolled in such 
a plan and who, as a result of a lapse in appropriations, is furloughed 
or excepted from furlough and working without pay shall continue during 
such lapse and may not be cancelled as a result of nonpayment of 
premiums or other periodic charges due to such lapse.''; and
        (3) in section 9003, by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Effect of Government Shutdown.--Coverage under a master 
contract under this chapter for long-term care insurance for an 
employee or member of the uniformed services enrolled under such 
contract and who, due to a lapse in appropriations, is furloughed or 
excepted from furlough and working without pay shall continue during 
such lapse and may not be cancelled as a result of nonpayment of 
premiums or other periodic charges due to such lapse.''.
    (b) Regulations.--
        (1) In general.--Consistent with paragraph (2), the Director of 
    the Office of Personnel Management shall prescribe regulations 
    under which premiums for supplemental dental, supplemental vision, 
    or long-term care insurance under chapter 89A, 89B, or 90 
    (respectively) of title 5, United States Code, (as amended by 
    subsection (a)) that are unpaid by an employee, a covered TRICARE-
    eligible individual, or a member of the uniformed services (as the 
    case may be), as a result of that employee, covered TRICARE-
    eligible individual, or member being furloughed or excepted from 
    furlough and working without pay as a result of a lapse in 
    appropriations, are paid to the applicable carrier from back pay 
    made available to the employee or member as soon as practicable 
    upon the end of such lapse.
        (2) Long-term care premiums from source other than backpay.--
    The regulations promulgated under paragraph (1) for the amendments 
    made by subsection (a)(3) may provide, with respect to any 
    individual who elected under section 9004(d) of title 5, United 
    States Code, to pay premiums directly to the carrier, that such 
    individual may continue to pay premiums pursuant to such election 
    instead of from back pay made available to such individual.
    (c) Application.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply 
to any contract for supplemental dental, supplemental vision, or long-
term care insurance under chapter 89A, 89B, or 90 (respectively) of 
title 5, United States Code, entered into before, on, or after the date 
of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 1112. LIMITATION ON TRANSFER OF OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT.
    (a) In General.--No person may assign, transfer, transition, merge, 
or consolidate any function, responsibility, authority, service, 
system, or program that is assigned in law to the Office of Personnel 
Management to or with the General Services Administration, the Office 
of Management and Budget, or the Executive Office of the President, 
until on or after the date that is 180 days after the date on which the 
report required by subsection (c) is submitted to the appropriate 
committees of Congress, and subject to the enactment of any legislation 
required.
    (b) Independent Study and Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Personnel 
    Management (in this section referred to as the ``Director'') shall 
    contract with the National Academy of Public Administration (in 
    this section referred to as the ``Academy'') to conduct a study 
    addressing each of the elements set forth in paragraph (3) and to 
    report the findings and recommendations derived from such study.
        (2) Deadline.--Not later than one year after the date the 
    contract required by paragraph (1) is entered into, the Academy 
    shall submit the report prepared under such contract to the 
    Director and the appropriate committees of Congress.
        (3) Requirements.--The study and report required by paragraph 
    (1) and (2) shall include a comprehensive assessment and analysis 
    of--
            (A) the statutory mandates assigned to the Office of 
        Personnel Management and the challenges associated with the 
        Office's execution of those mandates;
            (B) the non-statutory functions, responsibilities, 
        authorities, services, systems, and programs performed or 
        executed by the Office of Personnel Management; the Office's 
        justification for carrying out such functions, 
        responsibilities, authorities, services, systems, and programs; 
        and the challenges associated with the Office's execution of 
        same;
            (C) the means, options, and recommended courses of action 
        for addressing the challenges identified pursuant to 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B), including an analysis of the 
        benefits, costs, and feasibility of each option and the effect 
        of each on labor-management agreements;
            (D) a timetable for the implementation of options and 
        recommended courses of action identified pursuant to 
        subparagraph (C);
            (E) statutory or regulatory changes necessary to execute 
        any course of action recommended;
            (F) the methods for involving, engaging with, and receiving 
        input from other Federal agencies, departments, and entities 
        potentially affected by any change in the structure, functions, 
        responsibilities, authorities of the Office of Personnel 
        Management that may be recommended;
            (G) the views of identified stakeholders, including other 
        Federal agencies, departments, and entities; non-Federal 
        entities or organizations representing customers or intended 
        beneficiaries of Office of Personnel Management functions, 
        services, systems, or programs; and such individual customers 
        and intended beneficiaries; and
            (H) such other matters as the Director may prescribe.
    (c) OPM Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date on 
    which the report is submitted pursuant to subsection (b)(2) to the 
    Director and the appropriate committees of Congress, the Director, 
    in consultation with the General Services Administration, the 
    Office of Management and Budget, and other appropriate Federal 
    agencies, departments, or entities, shall submit to the appropriate 
    committees of Congress a report on the views of the Office of 
    Personnel Management on the findings and recommendations set forth 
    in the report prepared under subsection (b), together with any 
    recommendations for changes in the structure, functions, 
    responsibilities, and authorities of the Office of Personnel 
    Management.
        (2) Business case analysis.--Any recommendation submitted in 
    the report under paragraph (1) for change shall be accompanied by a 
    business case analysis setting forth the operational efficiencies 
    and cost savings (in both the short- and long-terms) associated 
    with such change, and a proposal for legislative or administrative 
    action required to effect the change proposed.
    (d) Definition of Appropriate Committees of Congress.--For purposes 
of this section, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' are 
the Committees on Appropriations and Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs of the Senate and the Committees on Appropriations and 
Oversight and Reform of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1113. ASSESSMENT OF ACCELERATED PROMOTION PROGRAM SUSPENSION.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall conduct an 
assessment of the impacts resulting from the Navy's suspension in 2016 
of the Accelerated Promotion Program (in this section referred to as 
the ``APP'').
    (b) Elements.--The assessment required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following elements:
        (1) An identification of the number of employees who were hired 
    at the four public shipyards between January 23, 2016, and December 
    22, 2016, covering the period in which APP was suspended, and who 
    would have otherwise been eligible for APP had the program been in 
    effect at the time they were hired.
        (2) An assessment for employees identified in paragraph (1) to 
    determine the difference between wages earned from the date of hire 
    to the date on which wage data is collected for purposes of the 
    assessment and the wages which would have been earned during this 
    same period had that employee participated in APP from the date of 
    hire and been promoted according to the average promotion timeframe 
    for participants hired in the five-year period prior to the 
    suspension.
        (3) An assessment for each employee identified in paragraph (1) 
    to determine at what grade and step each effected employee who 
    would have met the required experience and training to qualify for 
    an accelerated promotion would be on October 1, 2020, had that 
    employee been promoted according to the average promotion timeframe 
    for participants hired in the five-year period prior to the 
    suspension.
        (4) An evaluation of existing authorities available to the 
    Secretary to determine whether the Secretary can take measures 
    using those authorities to provide the pay difference and 
    corresponding interest to each effected employee who has otherwise 
    met the required experience and training to qualify for an 
    accelerated promotion identified in paragraph (2) and directly 
    promote the employee to the grade and step identified in paragraph 
    (3).
    (c) Report.--The Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report on the results of the assessment required 
under subsection (a) by not later than June 1, 2020, and shall provide 
interim briefings upon request.
SEC. 1114. REIMBURSEMENT FOR FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL INCOME TAXES 
INCURRED DURING TRAVEL, TRANSPORTATION, AND RELOCATION.
    (a) In General.--Section 5724b of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in the section heading, by striking ``of employees 
    transferred'';
        (2) in subsection (a)--
            (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``employee, or by an 
        employee and such employee's spouse (if filing jointly), for 
        any moving or storage'' and inserting ``individual, or by an 
        individual and such individual's spouse (if filing jointly), 
        for any travel, transportation, or relocation''; and
            (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``employee'' and 
        inserting ``individual, or the individual''; and
        (3) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) For purposes of this section, the term `travel, 
transportation, or relocation expenses' means all travel, 
transportation, or relocation expenses reimbursed or furnished in kind 
pursuant to this subchapter of chapter 41.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections for 
chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking the 
item relating to section 5724b and inserting the following:

``5724b. Taxes on reimbursements for travel, transportation, and 
          relocation expenses''.

    (c) Retroactive Effective Date.--The amendments made by this 
section shall take effect on January 1, 2018.
SEC. 1115. CLARIFICATION OF LIMITATION ON EXPEDITED HIRING AUTHORITY 
FOR POST-SECONDARY STUDENTS.
    Section 3116(d)(1) of title 5, United States Code, is amended to 
read as follows:
        ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
    total number of students that the head of an agency may appoint 
    under this section during a fiscal year may not exceed the number 
    equal to 15 percent of the number of students that the agency head 
    appointed during the previous fiscal year to a position at the GS-
    11 level, or an equivalent level, or below.''.
SEC. 1116. MODIFICATION OF TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS OF DEPARTMENT OF 
DEFENSE EMPLOYEES TO A PRIVATE-SECTOR ORGANIZATION.
    Section 1599g(e)(2)(A) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
by inserting ``permanent'' after ``without the''.
SEC. 1117. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR PART-TIME REEMPLOYMENT.
    (a) Civil Service Retirement System.--Section 8344(l)(7) of title 
5, United States Code, is amended by striking ``December 31, 2019'' and 
inserting ``December 31, 2024''.
    (b) Federal Employees Retirement System.--Section 8468(i)(7) of 
title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking ``December 31, 
2019'' and inserting ``December 31, 2024''.

                      Subtitle B--Fair Chance Act

SEC. 1121. SHORT TITLE.
    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Fair Chance to Compete for Jobs 
Act of 2019'' or the ``Fair Chance Act''.
SEC. 1122. PROHIBITION ON CRIMINAL HISTORY INQUIRIES PRIOR TO 
CONDITIONAL OFFER FOR FEDERAL EMPLOYMENT.
    (a) In General.--Subpart H of part III of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

   ``CHAPTER 92--PROHIBITION ON CRIMINAL HISTORY INQUIRIES PRIOR TO 
                           CONDITIONAL OFFER

``Sec.
``9201. Definitions.
``9202. Limitations on requests for criminal history record information.
``9203. Agency policies; complaint procedures.
``9204. Adverse action.
``9205. Procedures.
``9206. Rules of construction.

``Sec. 9201. Definitions
    ``In this chapter--
        ``(1) the term `agency' means `Executive agency' as such term 
    is defined in section 105 and includes--
            ``(A) the United States Postal Service and the Postal 
        Regulatory Commission; and
            ``(B) the Executive Office of the President;
        ``(2) the term `appointing authority' means an employee in the 
    executive branch of the Government of the United States that has 
    authority to make appointments to positions in the civil service;
        ``(3) the term `conditional offer' means an offer of employment 
    in a position in the civil service that is conditioned upon the 
    results of a criminal history inquiry;
        ``(4) the term `criminal history record information'--
            ``(A) except as provided in subparagraphs (B) and (C), has 
        the meaning given the term in section 9101(a);
            ``(B) includes any information described in the first 
        sentence of section 9101(a)(2) that has been sealed or expunged 
        pursuant to law; and
            ``(C) includes information collected by a criminal justice 
        agency, relating to an act or alleged act of juvenile 
        delinquency, that is analogous to criminal history record 
        information (including such information that has been sealed or 
        expunged pursuant to law); and
        ``(5) the term `suspension' has the meaning given the term in 
    section 7501.
``Sec. 9202. Limitations on requests for criminal history record 
    information
    ``(a) Inquiries Prior to Conditional Offer.--Except as provided in 
subsections (b) and (c), an employee of an agency may not request, in 
oral or written form (including through the Declaration for Federal 
Employment (Office of Personnel Management Optional Form 306) or any 
similar successor form, the USAJOBS internet website, or any other 
electronic means) that an applicant for an appointment to a position in 
the civil service disclose criminal history record information 
regarding the applicant before the appointing authority extends a 
conditional offer to the applicant.
    ``(b) Otherwise Required by Law.--The prohibition under subsection 
(a) shall not apply with respect to an applicant for a position in the 
civil service if consideration of criminal history record information 
prior to a conditional offer with respect to the position is otherwise 
required by law.
    ``(c) Exception for Certain Positions.--
        ``(1) In general.--The prohibition under subsection (a) shall 
    not apply with respect to an applicant for an appointment to a 
    position--
            ``(A) that requires a determination of eligibility 
        described in clause (i), (ii), or (iii) of section 
        9101(b)(1)(A);
            ``(B) as a Federal law enforcement officer (as defined in 
        section 115(c) of title 18); or
            ``(C) identified by the Director of the Office of Personnel 
        Management in the regulations issued under paragraph (2).
        ``(2) Regulations.--
            ``(A) Issuance.--The Director of the Office of Personnel 
        Management shall issue regulations identifying additional 
        positions with respect to which the prohibition under 
        subsection (a) shall not apply, giving due consideration to 
        positions that involve interaction with minors, access to 
        sensitive information, or managing financial transactions.
            ``(B) Compliance with civil rights laws.--The regulations 
        issued under subparagraph (A) shall--
                ``(i) be consistent with, and in no way supersede, 
            restrict, or limit the application of title VII of the 
            Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e et seq.) or other 
            relevant Federal civil rights laws; and
                ``(ii) ensure that all hiring activities conducted 
            pursuant to the regulations are conducted in a manner 
            consistent with relevant Federal civil rights laws.
``Sec. 9203. Agency policies; complaint procedures
    ``The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall--
        ``(1) develop, implement, and publish a policy to assist 
    employees of agencies in complying with section 9202 and the 
    regulations issued pursuant to such section; and
        ``(2) establish and publish procedures under which an applicant 
    for an appointment to a position in the civil service may submit a 
    complaint, or any other information, relating to compliance by an 
    employee of an agency with section 9202.
``Sec. 9204. Adverse action
    ``(a) First Violation.--If the Director of the Office of Personnel 
Management determines, after notice and an opportunity for a hearing on 
the record, that an employee of an agency has violated section 9202, 
the Director shall--
        ``(1) issue to the employee a written warning that includes a 
    description of the violation and the additional penalties that may 
    apply for subsequent violations; and
        ``(2) file such warning in the employee's official personnel 
    record file.
    ``(b) Subsequent Violations.--If the Director of the Office of 
Personnel Management determines, after notice and an opportunity for a 
hearing on the record, that an employee that was subject to subsection 
(a) has committed a subsequent violation of section 9202, the Director 
may take the following action:
        ``(1) For a second violation, suspension of the employee for a 
    period of not more than 7 days.
        ``(2) For a third violation, suspension of the employee for a 
    period of more than 7 days.
        ``(3) For a fourth violation--
            ``(A) suspension of the employee for a period of more than 
        7 days; and
            ``(B) a civil penalty against the employee in an amount 
        that is not more than $250.
        ``(4) For a fifth violation--
            ``(A) suspension of the employee for a period of more than 
        7 days; and
            ``(B) a civil penalty against the employee in an amount 
        that is not more than $500.
        ``(5) For any subsequent violation--
            ``(A) suspension of the employee for a period of more than 
        7 days; and
            ``(B) a civil penalty against the employee in an amount 
        that is not more than $1,000.
``Sec. 9205. Procedures
    ``(a) Appeals.--The Director of the Office of Personnel Management 
shall by rule establish procedures providing for an appeal from any 
adverse action taken under section 9204 by not later than 30 days after 
the date of the action.
    ``(b) Applicability of Other Laws.--An adverse action taken under 
section 9204 (including a determination in an appeal from such an 
action under subsection (a) of this section) shall not be subject to--
        ``(1) the procedures under chapter 75; or
        ``(2) except as provided in subsection (a) of this section, 
    appeal or judicial review.
``Sec. 9206. Rules of construction
    ``Nothing in this chapter may be construed to--
        ``(1) authorize any officer or employee of an agency to request 
    the disclosure of information described under subparagraphs (B) and 
    (C) of section 9201(4); or
        ``(2) create a private right of action for any person.''.
    (b) Regulations; Effective Date.--
        (1) Regulations.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
    enactment of this subtitle, the Director of the Office of Personnel 
    Management shall issue such regulations as are necessary to carry 
    out chapter 92 of title 5, United States Code (as added by this 
    subtitle).
        (2) Effective date.--Section 9202 of title 5, United States 
    Code (as added by this subtitle), shall take effect on the date 
    that is 2 years after the date of enactment of this subtitle.
    (c) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of chapters for 
part III of title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting after 
the item relating to chapter 91 the following:

``92. Prohibition on criminal history inquiries prior to 
conditional offer................................................9201''.

    (d) Application to Legislative Branch.--
        (1) In general.--The Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 
    (2 U.S.C. 1301 et seq.) is amended--
            (A) in section 102(a) (2 U.S.C. 1302(a)), by adding at the 
        end the following:
        ``(12) Section 9202 of title 5, United States Code.'';
            (B) by redesignating section 207 (2 U.S.C. 1317) as section 
        208; and
            (C) by inserting after section 206 (2 U.S.C. 1316) the 
        following new section:
    ``SEC. 207. RIGHTS AND PROTECTIONS RELATING TO CRIMINAL HISTORY 
      INQUIRIES.
    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section, the terms `agency', `criminal 
history record information', and `suspension' have the meanings given 
the terms in section 9201 of title 5, United States Code, except as 
otherwise modified by this section.
    ``(b) Restrictions on Criminal History Inquiries.--
        ``(1) In general.--
            ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B), 
        an employee of an employing office may not request that an 
        applicant for employment as a covered employee disclose 
        criminal history record information if the request would be 
        prohibited under section 9202 of title 5, United States Code, 
        if made by an employee of an agency.
            ``(B) Conditional offer.--For purposes of applying that 
        section 9202 under subparagraph (A), a reference in that 
        section 9202 to a conditional offer shall be considered to be 
        an offer of employment as a covered employee that is 
        conditioned upon the results of a criminal history inquiry.
        ``(2) Rules of construction.--The provisions of section 9206 of 
    title 5, United States Code, shall apply to employing offices, 
    consistent with regulations issued under subsection (d).
    ``(c) Remedy.--
        ``(1) In general.--The remedy for a violation of subsection 
    (b)(1) shall be such remedy as would be appropriate if awarded 
    under section 9204 of title 5, United States Code, if the violation 
    had been committed by an employee of an agency, consistent with 
    regulations issued under subsection (d), except that the reference 
    in that section to a suspension shall be considered to be a 
    suspension with the level of compensation provided for a covered 
    employee who is taking unpaid leave under section 202.
        ``(2) Process for obtaining relief.--An applicant for 
    employment as a covered employee who alleges a violation of 
    subsection (b)(1) may rely on the provisions of title IV (other 
    than section 407 or 408, or a provision of this title that permits 
    a person to obtain a civil action or judicial review), consistent 
    with regulations issued under subsection (d).
    ``(d) Regulations To Implement Section.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
    enactment of the Fair Chance to Compete for Jobs Act of 2019, the 
    Board shall, pursuant to section 304, issue regulations to 
    implement this section.
        ``(2) Parallel with agency regulations.--The regulations issued 
    under paragraph (1) shall be the same as substantive regulations 
    issued by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management under 
    section 2(b)(1) of the Fair Chance to Compete for Jobs Act of 2019 
    to implement the statutory provisions referred to in subsections 
    (a) through (c) except to the extent that the Board may determine, 
    for good cause shown and stated together with the regulation, that 
    a modification of such regulations would be more effective for the 
    implementation of the rights and protections under this section.
    ``(e) Effective Date.--Section 102(a)(12) and subsections (a) 
through (c) shall take effect on the date on which section 9202 of 
title 5, United States Code, applies with respect to agencies.''.
        (2) Clerical amendments.--
            (A) The table of contents in section 1(b) of the 
        Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (Public Law 104-1; 109 
        Stat. 3) is amended--
                (i) by redesignating the item relating to section 207 
            as the item relating to section 208; and
                (ii) by inserting after the item relating to section 
            206 the following new item:

``Sec. 207. Rights and protections relating to criminal history 
          inquiries.''.

            (B) Section 62(e)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
        is amended by striking ``or 207'' and inserting ``207, or 
        208''.
    (e) Application to Judicial Branch.--Section 604 of title 28, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(i) Restrictions on Criminal History Inquiries.--
        ``(1) Definitions.--In this subsection--
            ``(A) the terms `agency' and `criminal history record 
        information' have the meanings given those terms in section 
        9201 of title 5;
            ``(B) the term `covered employee' means an employee of the 
        judicial branch of the United States Government, other than--
                ``(i) any judge or justice who is entitled to hold 
            office during good behavior;
                ``(ii) a United States magistrate judge; or
                ``(iii) a bankruptcy judge; and
            ``(C) the term `employing office' means any office or 
        entity of the judicial branch of the United States Government 
        that employs covered employees.
        ``(2) Restriction.--A covered employee may not request that an 
    applicant for employment as a covered employee disclose criminal 
    history record information if the request would be prohibited under 
    section 9202 of title 5 if made by an employee of an agency.
        ``(3) Employing office policies; complaint procedure.--The 
    provisions of sections 9203 and 9206 of title 5 shall apply to 
    employing offices and to applicants for employment as covered 
    employees, consistent with regulations issued by the Director to 
    implement this subsection.
        ``(4) Adverse action.--
            ``(A) Adverse action.--The Director may take such adverse 
        action with respect to a covered employee who violates 
        paragraph (2) as would be appropriate under section 9204 of 
        title 5 if the violation had been committed by an employee of 
        an agency.
            ``(B) Appeals.--The Director shall by rule establish 
        procedures providing for an appeal from any adverse action 
        taken under subparagraph (A) by not later than 30 days after 
        the date of the action.
            ``(C) Applicability of other laws.--Except as provided in 
        subparagraph (B), an adverse action taken under subparagraph 
        (A) (including a determination in an appeal from such an action 
        under subparagraph (B)) shall not be subject to appeal or 
        judicial review.
        ``(5) Regulations to be issued.--
            ``(A) In general.--Not later than 18 months after the date 
        of enactment of the Fair Chance to Compete for Jobs Act of 
        2019, the Director shall issue regulations to implement this 
        subsection.
            ``(B) Parallel with agency regulations.--The regulations 
        issued under subparagraph (A) shall be the same as substantive 
        regulations promulgated by the Director of the Office of 
        Personnel Management under section 2(b)(1) of the Fair Chance 
        to Compete for Jobs Act of 2019 except to the extent that the 
        Director of the Administrative Office of the United States 
        Courts may determine, for good cause shown and stated together 
        with the regulation, that a modification of such regulations 
        would be more effective for the implementation of the rights 
        and protections under this subsection.
        ``(6) Effective date.--Paragraphs (1) through (4) shall take 
    effect on the date on which section 9202 of title 5 applies with 
    respect to agencies.''.
SEC. 1123. PROHIBITION ON CRIMINAL HISTORY INQUIRIES BY CONTRACTORS 
PRIOR TO CONDITIONAL OFFER.
    (a) Civilian Agency Contracts.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 47 of title 41, United States Code, is 
    amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 4714. Prohibition on criminal history inquiries by contractors 
    prior to conditional offer
    ``(a) Limitation on Criminal History Inquiries.--
        ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and 
    (3), an executive agency--
            ``(A) may not require that an individual or sole proprietor 
        who submits a bid for a contract to disclose criminal history 
        record information regarding that individual or sole proprietor 
        before determining the apparent awardee; and
            ``(B) shall require, as a condition of receiving a Federal 
        contract and receiving payments under such contract that the 
        contractor may not verbally, or through written form, request 
        the disclosure of criminal history record information regarding 
        an applicant for a position related to work under such contract 
        before the contractor extends a conditional offer to the 
        applicant.
        ``(2) Otherwise required by law.--The prohibition under 
    paragraph (1) does not apply with respect to a contract if 
    consideration of criminal history record information prior to a 
    conditional offer with respect to the position is otherwise 
    required by law.
        ``(3) Exception for certain positions.--
            ``(A) In general.--The prohibition under paragraph (1) does 
        not apply with respect to--
                ``(i) a contract that requires an individual hired 
            under the contract to access classified information or to 
            have sensitive law enforcement or national security duties; 
            or
                ``(ii) a position that the Administrator of General 
            Services identifies under the regulations issued under 
            subparagraph (B).
            ``(B) Regulations.--
                ``(i) Issuance.--Not later than 16 months after the 
            date of enactment of the Fair Chance to Compete for Jobs 
            Act of 2019, the Administrator of General Services, in 
            consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall issue 
            regulations identifying additional positions with respect 
            to which the prohibition under paragraph (1) shall not 
            apply, giving due consideration to positions that involve 
            interaction with minors, access to sensitive information, 
            or managing financial transactions.
                ``(ii) Compliance with civil rights laws.--The 
            regulations issued under clause (i) shall--

                    ``(I) be consistent with, and in no way supersede, 
                restrict, or limit the application of title VII of the 
                Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e et seq.) or 
                other relevant Federal civil rights laws; and
                    ``(II) ensure that all hiring activities conducted 
                pursuant to the regulations are conducted in a manner 
                consistent with relevant Federal civil rights laws.

    ``(b) Complaint Procedures.--The Administrator of General Services 
shall establish and publish procedures under which an applicant for a 
position with a Federal contractor may submit to the Administrator a 
complaint, or any other information, relating to compliance by the 
contractor with subsection (a)(1)(B).
    ``(c) Action for Violations of Prohibition on Criminal History 
Inquiries.--
        ``(1) First violation.--If the head of an executive agency 
    determines that a contractor has violated subsection (a)(1)(B), 
    such head shall--
            ``(A) notify the contractor;
            ``(B) provide 30 days after such notification for the 
        contractor to appeal the determination; and
            ``(C) issue a written warning to the contractor that 
        includes a description of the violation and the additional 
        remedies that may apply for subsequent violations.
        ``(2) Subsequent violation.--If the head of an executive agency 
    determines that a contractor that was subject to paragraph (1) has 
    committed a subsequent violation of subsection (a)(1)(B), such head 
    shall notify the contractor, shall provide 30 days after such 
    notification for the contractor to appeal the determination, and, 
    in consultation with the relevant Federal agencies, may take 
    actions, depending on the severity of the infraction and the 
    contractor's history of violations, including--
            ``(A) providing written guidance to the contractor that the 
        contractor's eligibility for contracts requires compliance with 
        this section;
            ``(B) requiring that the contractor respond within 30 days 
        affirming that the contractor is taking steps to comply with 
        this section; and
            ``(C) suspending payment under the contract for which the 
        applicant was being considered until the contractor 
        demonstrates compliance with this section.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) Conditional offer.--The term `conditional offer' means an 
    offer of employment for a position related to work under a contract 
    that is conditioned upon the results of a criminal history inquiry.
        ``(2) Criminal history record information.--The term `criminal 
    history record information' has the meaning given that term in 
    section 9201 of title 5.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 47 
    of title 41, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end 
    the following new item:

``4714. Prohibition on criminal history inquiries by contractors prior 
          to conditional offer.''.

        (3) Effective date.--Section 4714 of title 41, United States 
    Code, as added by paragraph (1), shall apply with respect to 
    contracts awarded pursuant to solicitations issued after the 
    effective date described in section 1122(b)(2) of this subtitle.
    (b) Defense Contracts.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 137 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by inserting after section 2338 the following new 
    section:
``Sec. 2339. Prohibition on criminal history inquiries by contractors 
    prior to conditional offer
    ``(a) Limitation on Criminal History Inquiries.--
        ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and 
    (3), the head of an agency--
            ``(A) may not require that an individual or sole proprietor 
        who submits a bid for a contract to disclose criminal history 
        record information regarding that individual or sole proprietor 
        before determining the apparent awardee; and
            ``(B) shall require as a condition of receiving a Federal 
        contract and receiving payments under such contract that the 
        contractor may not verbally or through written form request the 
        disclosure of criminal history record information regarding an 
        applicant for a position related to work under such contract 
        before such contractor extends a conditional offer to the 
        applicant.
        ``(2) Otherwise required by law.--The prohibition under 
    paragraph (1) does not apply with respect to a contract if 
    consideration of criminal history record information prior to a 
    conditional offer with respect to the position is otherwise 
    required by law.
        ``(3) Exception for certain positions.--
            ``(A) In general.--The prohibition under paragraph (1) does 
        not apply with respect to--
                ``(i) a contract that requires an individual hired 
            under the contract to access classified information or to 
            have sensitive law enforcement or national security duties; 
            or
                ``(ii) a position that the Secretary of Defense 
            identifies under the regulations issued under subparagraph 
            (B).
            ``(B) Regulations.--
                ``(i) Issuance.--Not later than 16 months after the 
            date of enactment of the Fair Chance to Compete for Jobs 
            Act of 2019, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with 
            the Administrator of General Services, shall issue 
            regulations identifying additional positions with respect 
            to which the prohibition under paragraph (1) shall not 
            apply, giving due consideration to positions that involve 
            interaction with minors, access to sensitive information, 
            or managing financial transactions.
                ``(ii) Compliance with civil rights laws.--The 
            regulations issued under clause (i) shall--

                    ``(I) be consistent with, and in no way supersede, 
                restrict, or limit the application of title VII of the 
                Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e et seq.) or 
                other relevant Federal civil rights laws; and
                    ``(II) ensure that all hiring activities conducted 
                pursuant to the regulations are conducted in a manner 
                consistent with relevant Federal civil rights laws.

    ``(b) Complaint Procedures.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
establish and publish procedures under which an applicant for a 
position with a Department of Defense contractor may submit a 
complaint, or any other information, relating to compliance by the 
contractor with subsection (a)(1)(B).
    ``(c) Action for Violations of Prohibition on Criminal History 
Inquiries.--
        ``(1) First violation.--If the Secretary of Defense determines 
    that a contractor has violated subsection (a)(1)(B), the Secretary 
    shall--
            ``(A) notify the contractor;
            ``(B) provide 30 days after such notification for the 
        contractor to appeal the determination; and
            ``(C) issue a written warning to the contractor that 
        includes a description of the violation and the additional 
        remedies that may apply for subsequent violations.
        ``(2) Subsequent violations.--If the Secretary of Defense 
    determines that a contractor that was subject to paragraph (1) has 
    committed a subsequent violation of subsection (a)(1)(B), the 
    Secretary shall notify the contractor, shall provide 30 days after 
    such notification for the contractor to appeal the determination, 
    and, in consultation with the relevant Federal agencies, may take 
    actions, depending on the severity of the infraction and the 
    contractor's history of violations, including--
            ``(A) providing written guidance to the contractor that the 
        contractor's eligibility for contracts requires compliance with 
        this section;
            ``(B) requiring that the contractor respond within 30 days 
        affirming that the contractor is taking steps to comply with 
        this section; and
            ``(C) suspending payment under the contract for which the 
        applicant was being considered until the contractor 
        demonstrates compliance with this section.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) Conditional offer.--The term `conditional offer' means an 
    offer of employment for a position related to work under a contract 
    that is conditioned upon the results of a criminal history inquiry.
        ``(2) Criminal history record information.--The term `criminal 
    history record information' has the meaning given that term in 
    section 9201 of title 5.''.
        (2) Effective date.--Section 2339(a) of title 10, United States 
    Code, as added by paragraph (1), shall apply with respect to 
    contracts awarded pursuant to solicitations issued after the 
    effective date described in section 1122(b)(2) of this subtitle.
        (3) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 137 
    of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the 
    item relating to section 2338 the following new item:

``2339. Prohibition on criminal history inquiries by contractors prior 
          to conditional offer.''.

    (c) Revisions to Federal Acquisition Regulation.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
    enactment of this subtitle, the Federal Acquisition Regulatory 
    Council shall revise the Federal Acquisition Regulation to 
    implement section 4714 of title 41, United States Code, and section 
    2339 of title 10, United States Code, as added by this section.
        (2) Consistency with office of personnel management 
    regulations.--The Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council shall 
    revise the Federal Acquisition Regulation under paragraph (1) to be 
    consistent with the regulations issued by the Director of the 
    Office of Personnel Management under section 1122(b)(1) to the 
    maximum extent practicable. The Council shall include together with 
    such revision an explanation of any substantive modification of the 
    Office of Personnel Management regulations, including an 
    explanation of how such modification will more effectively 
    implement the rights and protections under this section.
SEC. 1124. REPORT ON EMPLOYMENT OF INDIVIDUALS FORMERLY INCARCERATED IN 
FEDERAL PRISONS.
    (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``covered individual''--
        (1) means an individual who has completed a term of 
    imprisonment in a Federal prison for a Federal criminal offense; 
    and
        (2) does not include an alien who is or will be removed from 
    the United States for a violation of the immigration laws (as such 
    term is defined in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality 
    Act (8 U.S.C. 1101)).
    (b) Study and Report Required.--The Director of the Bureau of 
Justice Statistics, in coordination with the Director of the Bureau of 
the Census, shall--
        (1) not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this 
    subtitle, design and initiate a study on the employment of covered 
    individuals after their release from Federal prison, including by 
    collecting--
            (A) demographic data on covered individuals, including 
        race, age, and sex; and
            (B) data on employment and earnings of covered individuals 
        who are denied employment, including the reasons for the 
        denials; and
        (2) not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this 
    subtitle, and every 5 years thereafter, submit a report that does 
    not include any personally identifiable information on the study 
    conducted under paragraph (1) to--
            (A) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
        Affairs of the Senate;
            (B) the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions 
        of the Senate;
            (C) the Committee on Oversight and Reform of the House of 
        Representatives; and
            (D) the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of 
        Representatives.

                     Subtitle C--ATC Hiring Reform

SEC. 1131. SHORT TITLE; DEFINITION.
    (a) Short Title.--This subtitle may be cited as the ``ATC Hiring 
Reform Act''.
    (b) Definition of Appropriate Committees of Congress.--In this 
subtitle, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Oversight and Reform of the House of 
    Representatives;
        (2) the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the 
    House of Representatives;
        (3) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
    of the Senate; and
        (4) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of 
    the Senate.
SEC. 1132. HIRING OF AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL SPECIALISTS.
    Section 44506(f)(1)(B)(i) of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``referring'' and all that follows through ``10 
percent.'' and inserting ``giving further preferential consideration, 
within each qualification category based upon pre-employment testing 
results (including application of veterans' preference as required 
under section 40122(g)(2)(B)), to pool 1 applicants described in clause 
(ii) before pool 2 applicants described in clause (iii).''.
SEC. 1133. ENSURING HIRING PREFERENCE FOR APPLICANTS WITH EXPERIENCE AT 
AN AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL FACILITY OF THE NATIONAL GUARD.
    Section 44506(f)(1)(A)(ii) of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting ``(including a facility of the National Guard)'' 
after ``Department of Defense''.
SEC. 1134. FAA REPORTS ON AIR TRAFFIC CONTROLLER HIRING AND TRAINING.
    (a) Reports to Congress.--Not later than September 30 of 2020, 
2021, 2022, and 2023, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
Administration shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
report regarding the hiring and training of air traffic controllers.
    (b) Contents.--Each report under subsection (a) shall include the 
following information:
        (1) The number of applicants, from each hiring pool (by vacancy 
    announcement beginning with vacancy announcement FAA-ATO-19-
    ALLSRCE-61676 (issued on June 14, 2019)) who have done the 
    following:
            (A) Applied for the position of air traffic controller.
            (B) Been issued a tentative offer letter for the position 
        of air traffic controller.
            (C) Been issued a firm offer letter for the position of air 
        traffic controller.
            (D) Been hired for the position of air traffic controller.
            (E) Reported to the FAA Academy for initial qualification 
        training.
            (F) Successfully passed Air Traffic Basics training at the 
        FAA Academy.
            (G) Successfully passed Terminal initial training at the 
        FAA Academy.
            (H) Successfully passed En Route initial training at the 
        FAA Academy.
        (2) The average cost of training per individual for each such 
    hiring pool for the following:
            (A) Air Traffic Basics training at the FAA Academy.
            (B) Terminal initial training at the FAA Academy.
            (C) En Route initial training at the FAA Academy.
        (3) The FAA Academy attrition rate for each such hiring pool.
        (4) The number of applicants, from each such hiring pool, who 
    have successfully completed qualification training at their first 
    FAA facility and the number who are still in training at their 
    first facility.
        (5) Other information determined appropriate by the 
    Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration.
SEC. 1135. DOT INSPECTOR GENERAL REVIEW AND REPORT.
    (a) Review.--
        (1) In general.--The Inspector General of the Department of 
    Transportation (in this section referred to as the ``Inspector 
    General'') shall conduct a review that assesses the assumptions and 
    methodologies used to develop the air traffic controller pre-
    employment test. Such review shall include--
            (A) what job-relevant aptitudes are measured by the air 
        traffic controller pre-employment test and to what extent such 
        aptitudes are tested;
            (B) the scoring methodology for the air traffic controller 
        pre-employment test, including an assessment of whether such 
        methodology is applied uniformly for all classes of applicants;
            (C) whether the air traffic controller pre-employment test 
        incorporates any biographical questionnaire or assessment other 
        than basic identifiers, such as name and questions that assess 
        personal characteristics, and the extent to which such 
        biographical assumptions are relied upon to assess air traffic 
        controller applicants;
            (D) the effectiveness of the pre-employment test, mental 
        health screening, and any other applicable pre-employment 
        assessment to determine whether an applicant possesses the 
        skills necessary to perform the duties of a controller; and
            (E) ways to improve the pre-employment test and other 
        applicable pre-employment assessments as the Inspector General 
        determines appropriate.
        (2) Start date.--The Inspector General shall initiate the 
    review under paragraph (1) by not later than 90 days after the date 
    of enactment of this Act.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date the Inspector 
General initiates the review under subsection (a), the Inspector 
General shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report 
on such review.

             TITLE XII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

                   Subtitle A--Assistance and Training

Sec. 1201. Modification of authority to build capacity of foreign 
          security forces.
Sec. 1202. Modification and extension of cross servicing agreements for 
          loan of personnel protection and personnel survivability 
          equipment in coalition operations.
Sec. 1203. Modifications of authorities relating to acquisition and 
          cross-servicing agreements.
Sec. 1204. Modification of quarterly report on obligation and 
          expenditure of funds for security cooperation programs and 
          activities.
Sec. 1205. Gender perspectives and participation by women in security 
          cooperation activities.
Sec. 1206. Plan to provide consistency of administration of authorities 
          relating to vetting of units of security forces of foreign 
          countries; modification of assessment, monitoring, and 
          evaluation of security cooperation programs and activities.
Sec. 1207. Extension of authority for support of special operations for 
          irregular warfare.
Sec. 1208. Extension and modification of Commanders' Emergency Response 
          Program and elimination of certain payments to redress injury 
          and loss.
Sec. 1209. Two-year extension of program authority for Global Security 
          Contingency Fund.
Sec. 1210. Legal institutional capacity building initiative for foreign 
          defense institutions.
Sec. 1210A. Department of Defense support for stabilization activities 
          in national security interest of the United States.

        Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan

Sec. 1211. Extension of authority to transfer defense articles and 
          provide defense services to the military and security forces 
          of Afghanistan.
Sec. 1212. Extension and modification of authority to acquire products 
          and services produced in countries along a major route of 
          supply to Afghanistan.
Sec. 1213. Authority for certain payments to redress injury and loss.
Sec. 1214. Extension and modification of semiannual report on enhancing 
          security and stability in Afghanistan.
Sec. 1215. Special Immigrant Visa program reporting requirement.
Sec. 1216. Meaningful inclusion of Afghan women in peace negotiations.
Sec. 1217. Extension and modification of authority for reimbursement of 
          certain coalition nations for support provided to United 
          States military operations.
Sec. 1218. Support for reconciliation activities led by the Government 
          of Afghanistan.
Sec. 1219. Modification and extension of the Afghan Special Immigrant 
          Visa Program.

          Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Syria, Iraq, and Iran

Sec. 1221. Modification of authority and limitation on use of funds to 
          provide assistance to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and 
          Syria.
Sec. 1222. Extension and modification of authority to provide assistance 
          to vetted Syrian groups and individuals.
Sec. 1223. Modification of authority to support operations and 
          activities of the Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq.
Sec. 1224. Establishing a coordinator for detained ISIS members and 
          relevant displaced populations in Syria.
Sec. 1225. Report on lessons learned from efforts to liberate Mosul and 
          Raqqah from control of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria.
Sec. 1226. Expansion of availability of financial assets of Iran to 
          victims of terrorism.
Sec. 1227. Report on the status of deconfliction channels with Iran.
Sec. 1228. Prohibition on provision of weapons and other forms of 
          support to certain organizations.

         Subtitle D--Matters Relating to the Russian Federation

Sec. 1231. Extension of limitation on military cooperation between the 
          United States and Russia.
Sec. 1232. Prohibition on availability of funds relating to sovereignty 
          of Russia over Crimea.
Sec. 1233. Sense of Congress on updating and modernizing existing 
          agreements to avert miscalculation between the United States 
          and Russia.
Sec. 1234. United States participation in Open Skies Treaty.
Sec. 1235. Modifications of briefing, notification, and reporting 
          requirements relating to non-compliance by the Russian 
          Federation with its obligations under the INF Treaty.
Sec. 1236. Report on treaties relating to nuclear arms control.
Sec. 1237. Reports relating to the New START Treaty.
Sec. 1238. Report on military activities of the Russian Federation and 
          the People's Republic of China in the Arctic region.
Sec. 1239. Updated strategy to counter the threat of malign influence by 
          the Russian Federation and other countries.

             Subtitle E--Matters Relating to Europe and NATO

Sec. 1241. Sense of Congress on support for the North Atlantic Treaty 
          Organization.
Sec. 1242. Prohibition on the use of funds to suspend, terminate, or 
          provide notice of denunciation of the North Atlantic Treaty.
Sec. 1243. Future years plans and planning transparency for the European 
          Deterrence Initiative.
Sec. 1244. Modification and extension of Ukraine Security Assistance 
          Initiative.
Sec. 1245. Limitation on transfer of F-35 aircraft to Turkey.
Sec. 1246. Baltic defense assessment; extension and modification of 
          security assistance for Baltic countries for joint program for 
          interoperability and deterrence against aggression.
Sec. 1247. Extension of authority for and report on training for Eastern 
          European national security forces in the course of 
          multilateral exercises.
Sec. 1248. Extension and modification of NATO Special Operations 
          Headquarters.
Sec. 1249. North Atlantic Treaty Organization Joint Force Command.
Sec. 1250. Report on North Atlantic Treaty Organization Readiness 
          Initiative.
Sec. 1250A. Repeal of prohibition on transfer of articles on the United 
          States munitions list to the Republic of Cyprus.

         Subtitle F--Matters Relating to the Indo-Pacific Region

Sec. 1251. Modification of Indo-Pacific Maritime Security Initiative.
Sec. 1252. Expansion of Indo-Pacific Maritime Security Initiative and 
          limitation on use of funds.
Sec. 1253. Report on resourcing United States defense requirements for 
          the Indo-Pacific region and study on competitive strategies.
Sec. 1254. Limitation on use of funds to reduce the total number of 
          members of the Armed Forces serving on active duty who are 
          deployed to South Korea.
Sec. 1255. Report on direct, indirect, and burden-sharing contributions 
          of Japan and South Korea.
Sec. 1256. Sense of Congress on security commitments to the Governments 
          of Japan and the Republic of Korea and trilateral cooperation 
          among the United States, Japan, and the Republic of Korea.
Sec. 1257. Sense of Congress on North Korea.
Sec. 1258. Statement of policy and sense of Congress on, and strategy to 
          fulfill obligations under, Mutual Defense Treaty with the 
          Republic of the Philippines.
Sec. 1259. Report on security cooperation with the Philippine National 
          Police.
Sec. 1260. Modification of annual report on military and security 
          developments involving the People's Republic of China.
Sec. 1260A. Report on foreign military activities in Pacific Island 
          countries.
Sec. 1260B. Report on cybersecurity activities with Taiwan.
Sec. 1260C. Review and report related to the Taiwan Relations Act.
Sec. 1260D. Sense of Congress on enhancement of the United States-Taiwan 
          defense relationship.
Sec. 1260E. Chinese foreign direct investment in countries of the Arctic 
          region.
Sec. 1260F. Sense of Congress on policy toward Hong Kong.
Sec. 1260G. Sense of Congress on enhancing defense and security 
          cooperation with the Republic of Singapore.
Sec. 1260H. Authority to transfer funds for Bien Hoa dioxin cleanup.
Sec. 1260I. Limitation on removal of Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd. from 
          entity list of Bureau of Industry and Security.
Sec. 1260J. Report on ZTE compliance with Superseding Settlement 
          Agreement and Superseding Order.
Sec. 1260K. Report on the lay-down of United States Marines in the Indo-
          Pacific Region.

                        Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 1261. Modification to report on legal and policy frameworks for the 
          use of military force.
Sec. 1262. Independent review of sufficiency of resources available to 
          United States Southern Command and United States Africa 
          Command.
Sec. 1263. United States Central Command posture assessment and review.
Sec. 1264. Limitation on production of nuclear proliferation assessment 
          statements.
Sec. 1265. Western Hemisphere resource assessment.
Sec. 1266. Human rights in Brazil.
Sec. 1267. Certification relating to assistance for Guatemala.
Sec. 1268. Independent analysis of human rights situation in Honduras.
Sec. 1269. Briefing on strategy to improve the efforts of the Nigerian 
          military to prevent, mitigate, and respond to civilian harm.
Sec. 1270. Report on implications of Chinese military presence in 
          Djibouti.
Sec. 1271. Rule of construction on the permanent stationing of United 
          States Armed Forces in Somalia.
Sec. 1272. Defense and diplomatic strategy for Libya.
Sec. 1273. Prohibition on in-flight refueling to non-United States 
          aircraft that engage in hostilities in the ongoing civil war 
          in Yemen.
Sec. 1274. Report on Saudi-led coalition strikes in Yemen.
Sec. 1275. Reports on expenses incurred for in-flight refueling of Saudi 
          coalition aircraft conducting missions relating to civil war 
          in Yemen.
Sec. 1276. Report on Saudi Arabia's human rights record.
Sec. 1277. Report on intelligence community assessment relating to the 
          killing of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi.
Sec. 1278. United States-Israel cooperation to counter unmanned aerial 
          systems.
Sec. 1279. Extension and modification of authority for United States-
          Israel anti-tunnel cooperation activities.
Sec. 1280. Report on cost imposition strategy.
Sec. 1281. Modification of initiative to support protection of national 
          security academic researchers from undue influence and other 
          security threats.
Sec. 1282. Modification of responsibility for policy on civilian 
          casualty matters.
Sec. 1283. Report on export of certain satellites to entities with 
          certain beneficial ownership structures.
Sec. 1284. Rule of construction relating to the use of military force.
Sec. 1285. Reports and briefings on use of military force and support of 
          partner forces.

                  Subtitle A--Assistance and Training

SEC. 1201. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO BUILD CAPACITY OF FOREIGN 
SECURITY FORCES.
    (a) Authority.--Subsection (a)(7) of section 333 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting ``existing'' before 
``international coalition operation''.
    (b) Notice and Wait on Activities Under Programs.--Subsection (e) 
of such section is amended by adding at the end the following:
        ``(9) In the case of a program described in subsection (a), 
    each of the following:
            ``(A) A description of whether assistance under the program 
        could be provided pursuant to other authorities under this 
        title, the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, or any other train 
        and equip authorities of the Department of Defense.
            ``(B) An identification of each such authority described in 
        subparagraph (A).''.
SEC. 1202. MODIFICATION AND EXTENSION OF CROSS SERVICING AGREEMENTS FOR 
LOAN OF PERSONNEL PROTECTION AND PERSONNEL SURVIVABILITY EQUIPMENT IN 
COALITION OPERATIONS.
    Section 1207 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' Mckeon 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (10 U.S.C. 2342 
note) is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections (e) 
    and (f), respectively;
        (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
    ``(d) Reports to Congress.--If the authority provided under this 
section is exercised during a fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense 
shall, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report on the exercise of such 
authority by not later than October 30 of the year in which such fiscal 
year ends. Each report on the exercise of such authority shall specify 
the recipient country of the equipment loaned, the type of equipment 
loaned, and the duration of the loan of such equipment.''; and
        (3) in subsection (f), as redesignated, by striking ``September 
    30, 2019'' and inserting ``December 31, 2024''.
SEC. 1203. MODIFICATIONS OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO ACQUISITION AND 
CROSS-SERVICING AGREEMENTS.
    (a) Designation and Notice of Intent to Enter Into Agreement With 
Non-NATO Country.--Subsection (b) of section 2342 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b)(1) The Secretary of Defense may not designate a country for 
an agreement under this section unless--
        ``(A) the Secretary, after consultation with the Secretary of 
    State, determines that the designation of such country for such 
    purpose is in the interest of the national security of the United 
    States; and
        ``(B) in the case of a country that is not a member of the 
    North Atlantic Treaty Organization, the Secretary submits to the 
    appropriate committees of Congress notice of the intended 
    designation not less than 30 days before the date on which such 
    country is designated by the Secretary under subsection (a).
    ``(2) In the case of a country that is not a member of the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization, the Secretary of Defense may not enter 
into an agreement under this section unless the Secretary submits to 
the appropriate committees of Congress a notice of intent to enter into 
such an agreement not less than 30 days before the date on which the 
Secretary enters into the agreement.''.
    (b) Oversight Responsibilities.--Such section is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (f) through (h) as subsections 
    (g) through (i), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
    subsection (f):
    ``(f) Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, the Secretary 
of Defense shall designate an existing senior civilian or military 
official who shall have primary responsibility for--
        ``(1) accounting for logistic support, supplies, and services 
    received or provided under acquisition and cross-servicing 
    agreements;
        ``(2) ensuring consistent standards and guidance to the armed 
    forces and combatant commands in executing acquisition and cross-
    servicing agreements;
        ``(3) overseeing and monitoring the implementation of 
    acquisition and cross-servicing agreements in coordination with the 
    Under Secretary of Defense for Policy; and
        ``(4) such other responsibilities as may be prescribed by the 
    Secretary.''.
    (c) Regulations.--Subsection (g) of such section, as redesignated 
by subsection (b)(1), is amended to read as follows:
    ``(g)(1) Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, the 
Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations to ensure that--
        ``(A) contracts entered into under this subchapter are free 
    from self-dealing, bribery, and conflict of interests;
        ``(B) adequate processes and controls are in place to provide 
    for the accurate accounting of logistic support, supplies, and 
    services received or provided under the authority of this 
    subchapter; and
        ``(C) personnel responsible for accounting for logistic 
    support, supplies, and services received or provided under such 
    authority are fully trained and aware of such responsibilities.
        ``(2)(A) Not later than 270 days after the issuance of the 
    regulations under paragraph (1), the Comptroller General of the 
    United States shall conduct a review of the implementation by the 
    Secretary of such regulations.
        ``(B) The review conducted under subparagraph (A) shall--
            ``(i) assess the effectiveness of such regulations and the 
        implementation of such regulations to ensure the effective 
        management and oversight of an agreement under subsection 
        (a)(1); and
            ``(ii) include any other matter the Comptroller General 
        considers relevant.''.
    (d) Reports.--Subsection (h) of such section, as redesignated by 
subsection (b)(1), is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``in effect'' and inserting 
    ``that have entered into force or were applied provisionally'';
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``date on which the 
    Secretary'' and all that follows through the period at the end and 
    inserting ``dates on which the Secretary notified Congress--
            ``(A) pursuant to subsection (b)(1)(B) of the designation 
        of such country under subsection (a); and
            ``(B) pursuant to subsection (b)(2) of the intent of the 
        Secretary to enter into the agreement.'';
        (3) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
        ``(3) The class of supply, total dollar amount, the amount 
    collected, and the outstanding balance of logistic support, 
    supplies, and services provided during the preceding fiscal year 
    under each such agreement.'';
        (4) by amending paragraph (4) to read as follows:
        ``(4) The class of supply, total dollar amount, the amount 
    collected, and the outstanding balance of logistic support, 
    supplies, and services received during the preceding fiscal year 
    under each such agreement.'';
        (5) by striking paragraph (5); and
        (6) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(5) With respect to any transaction for logistic support, 
    supplies, and services that has not been reconciled more than one 
    year after the date on which the transaction occurred, a 
    description of the transaction that includes the following:
            ``(A) The date on which the transaction occurred.
            ``(B) The country or organization to which logistic 
        support, supplies, and services were provided.
            ``(C) The value of the transaction.
        ``(6) An explanation of any waiver granted under section 
    2347(c) during the preceding fiscal year, including an 
    identification of the relevant contingency operation or non-combat 
    operation.''.
SEC. 1204. MODIFICATION OF QUARTERLY REPORT ON OBLIGATION AND 
EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR SECURITY COOPERATION PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES.
    Section 381(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``30 days'' and inserting ``60 days''.
SEC. 1205. GENDER PERSPECTIVES AND PARTICIPATION BY WOMEN IN SECURITY 
COOPERATION ACTIVITIES.
    Consistent with the Women, Peace, and Security Act of 2017 (Public 
Law 115-68), the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
Secretary of State, should seek to incorporate gender perspectives and 
participation by women in security cooperation activities to the 
maximum extent practicable.
SEC. 1206. PLAN TO PROVIDE CONSISTENCY OF ADMINISTRATION OF AUTHORITIES 
RELATING TO VETTING OF UNITS OF SECURITY FORCES OF FOREIGN COUNTRIES; 
MODIFICATION OF ASSESSMENT, MONITORING, AND EVALUATION OF SECURITY 
COOPERATION PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and Secretary of State 
shall jointly develop, implement, and submit to the congressional 
defense committees, the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, 
and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a 
plan to provide consistency in administration of section 362 of title 
10, United States Code, and section 620M of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2378d).
    (b) Matters to Be Included.--The plan required by subsection (a) 
shall contain the following:
        (1) Common standards and procedures which shall be used by the 
    Department of Defense and Department of State to obtain and verify 
    information regarding the vetting of units of the security forces 
    of foreign countries for gross violation of human rights under the 
    authorities described in subsection (a), including--
            (A) public guidelines for external sources to report 
        information; and
            (B) methods and criteria employed by the Department of 
        Defense and Department of State to determine whether sources, 
        source reporting, and allegations are credible.
        (2) Measures to ensure the Department of Defense has read-only 
    access to the International Vetting and Security Tracking (INVEST) 
    system, and any successor or equivalent system.
        (3) Measures to ensure the authorities described in subsection 
    (a) are applied to any foreign forces, irregular forces, groups, 
    and individuals that receive training, equipment, or other 
    assistance from the United States military.
    (c) Form.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Integration of Human Rights and Civilian Protection Into 
Assessment, Monitoring, and Evaluation of Security Cooperation Programs 
and Activities.--
        (1) Reports required.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
    the appropriate congressional committees an interim report and a 
    final report on the steps the Secretary will take to incorporate 
    partner units' activities, as such activities relate to human 
    rights and protection of civilians, into the program elements 
    described in section 383(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code.
        (2) Deadlines.--
            (A) Interim report.--The interim report required under 
        paragraph (1) shall be submitted to the appropriate 
        congressional committees not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act and shall include a summary of the 
        progress of the Secretary in implementing the steps described 
        in such paragraph.
            (B) Final report.--The final report required under 
        paragraph (1) shall be submitted to the appropriate 
        congressional committees not later than one year after the date 
        of enactment of this Act and shall specifically identify the 
        actions the Secretary took to implement the steps described in 
        paragraph (1).
        (3) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
    subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means 
    the following:
            (A) The Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate.
            (B) The Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1207. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR SUPPORT OF SPECIAL OPERATIONS FOR 
IRREGULAR WARFARE.
    Section 1202(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1639) is amended by 
striking ``2020'' and inserting ``2023''.
SEC. 1208. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF COMMANDERS' EMERGENCY RESPONSE 
PROGRAM AND ELIMINATION OF CERTAIN PAYMENTS TO REDRESS INJURY AND LOSS.
    (a) Extension and Modification of Commanders' Emergency Response 
Program.--Section 1201 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1619), as most recently 
amended by the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by striking ``During the period beginning on October 1, 
        2016, and ending on December 31, 2019'' and inserting ``During 
        the period beginning on October 1, 2019, and ending on December 
        31, 2020''; and
            (B) by striking ``$10,000,000'' and inserting 
        ``$2,500,000'';
        (2) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``of fiscal years 2017 
    through 2019'' and inserting ``for each of fiscal years 2017 
    through 2020''; and
        (3) in subsection (f), in the first sentence, by striking 
    ``during the period beginning on October 1, 2016, and ending on 
    December 31, 2019'' and inserting ``during the period beginning on 
    October 1, 2019, and ending on December 31, 2020''.
    (b) Elimination of Authority for Certain Payments to Redress Injury 
and Loss in Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, Somalia, Libya, and Yemen.--
Section 1211 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2477), as most recently amended by 
section 1224(a) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), is further amended by 
striking subsection (b).
SEC. 1209. TWO-YEAR EXTENSION OF PROGRAM AUTHORITY FOR GLOBAL SECURITY 
CONTINGENCY FUND.
    Section 1207 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2012 (22 U.S.C. 2151 note) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (i)--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``September 30, 2019'' 
        and inserting ``September 30, 2021''; and
            (B) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
        ``(2) Exception.--Amounts appropriated and transferred to the 
    Fund before September 30, 2019, shall remain available for 
    obligation and expenditure after that date, but only for activities 
    under programs commenced under subsection (b) before September 30, 
    2019.''; and
        (2) in subsection (o)--
            (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``September 30, 
        2019'' and inserting ``September 30, 2021''; and
            (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``through 2019'' 
        and inserting ``through 2021''.
SEC. 1210. LEGAL INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING INITIATIVE FOR FOREIGN 
DEFENSE INSTITUTIONS.
    (a) Initiative.--The Secretary of Defense may carry out, in 
accordance with section 332 of title 10, United States Code, an 
initiative of legal institutional capacity building in collaboration 
with the appropriate ministry of defense (or security agency serving a 
similar defense function) legal institutions that support the efforts 
of one or more foreign countries to establish or improve legal 
institutional capacity.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the initiative under subsection (a) is 
to enhance, through advisory services, training, or related training 
support services, as appropriate, the legal institutional capacity of 
the applicable foreign country to do the following:
        (1) Integrate legal matters into the authority, doctrine, and 
    policies of the ministry of defense (or security agency serving a 
    similar defense function) and forces of such country.
        (2) Provide appropriate legal support to commanders conducting 
    defense and national security operations.
        (3) With respect to defense and national security law, 
    institutionalize education, training, and professional development 
    for personnel and forces, including uniformed lawyers, officers, 
    noncommissioned officers, and civilian lawyers and leadership 
    within such ministries of defense (and security agencies serving a 
    similar defense function).
        (4) Establish a military justice system that is objective, 
    transparent, and impartial.
        (5) Conduct effective and transparent command and 
    administrative investigations.
        (6) Build the legal capacity of the forces and civilian 
    personnel of ministries of defense (and security agencies serving a 
    similar defense function) to provide equitable, transparent, and 
    accountable institutions and provide for anti-corruption measures 
    within such institutions.
        (7) Build capacity--
            (A) to provide for the protection of civilians consistent 
        with the law of armed conflict and human rights law; and
            (B) to investigate incidents of civilian casualties.
        (8) Promote understanding and observance of--
            (A) the law of armed conflict;
            (B) human rights and fundamental freedoms;
            (C) the rule of law; and
            (D) civilian control of the military.
        (9) Establish mechanisms for effective civilian oversight of 
    defense and national security legal institutions and legal matters.
    (c) Elements.--The initiative under subsection (a) shall include 
the following elements:
        (1) A measure for monitoring the implementation of the 
    initiative and evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of the 
    initiative, in accordance with section 383 of title 10, United 
    States Code.
        (2) An assessment of the organizational weaknesses for legal 
    institutional capacity building of the applicable foreign country, 
    including baseline information, an assessment of gaps in the 
    capability and capacity of the appropriate institutions of such 
    country, and any other indicator of efficacy, in accordance with 
    section 383 of title 10, United States Code.
        (3) An engagement plan for building legal institutional 
    capacity that addresses the weaknesses identified under paragraph 
    (2), including objectives, milestones, and a timeline.
    (d) Reports.--
        (1) In general.--Beginning in fiscal year 2020 through the 
    fiscal year in which the initiative under subsection (a) 
    terminates, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    appropriate committees of Congress an annual report on the legal 
    institutional capacity building activities carried out under this 
    section.
        (2) Integration into other capacity building reports.--The 
    report submitted under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year shall be 
    integrated into the report required pursuant to subsection (b)(2) 
    of section 332 of title 10, United States Code, for the fourth 
    fiscal year quarter of such fiscal year.
        (3) Matters to be included.--Each report submitted under 
    paragraph (1) shall include the following:
            (A) The same information required under subsection (b)(2) 
        of section 332 of title 10, United States Code.
            (B) The names of the one or more countries in which the 
        initiative was conducted.
            (C) For each such country--
                (i) the purpose of the initiative;
                (ii) the objectives, milestones, and timeline of the 
            initiative;
                (iii) the number and type of advisors assigned and 
            deployed to the country, as applicable; and
                (iv) an assessment of the progress of the 
            implementation of the initiative.
    (e) Sunset.--The initiative under subsection (a) shall terminate on 
December 31, 2024.
    (f) Funding.--Amounts for programs carried out pursuant to 
subsection (a) in a fiscal year, and for other purposes in connection 
with such programs as authorized by this section, may be derived only 
from amounts authorized to be appropriated for such fiscal year for the 
Department of Defense for operation and maintenance, Defense-wide, and 
available for the Defense Security Cooperation Agency for such programs 
and purposes.
SEC. 1210A. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SUPPORT FOR STABILIZATION ACTIVITIES 
IN NATIONAL SECURITY INTEREST OF THE UNITED STATES.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may, with the concurrence 
of the Secretary of State and in consultation with the Administrator of 
the United States Agency for International Development, provide support 
for the stabilization activities of other Federal agencies specified in 
subsection (c)(1).
    (b) Designation of Foreign Areas.--
        (1) In general.--Amounts authorized to be provided pursuant to 
    this section shall be available only for support for stabilization 
    activities--
            (A) in a country specified in paragraph (2); and
            (B) that the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of 
        the Secretary of State, has determined are in the national 
        security interest of the United States.
        (2) Specified countries.--The countries specified in this 
    paragraph are as follows:
            (A) Iraq.
            (B) Syria.
            (C) Afghanistan.
            (D) Somalia.
    (c) Support to Other Agencies.--
        (1) In general.--Support may be provided for stabilization 
    activities under subsection (a) to the Department of State, the 
    United States Agency for International Development, or other 
    Federal agencies, on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis. The 
    authority to provide such support under this paragraph on a 
    reimbursable basis is in addition to other authorities to provide 
    support on such basis.
        (2) Type of support.--Support under subsection (a) may consist 
    of logistic support, supplies, and services.
    (d) Requirement for a Stabilization Strategy.--
        (1) Limitation.--With respect to any country specified in 
    subsection (b)(2), no amount of support may be provided under 
    subsection (a) until 15 days after the date on which the Secretary 
    of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, submits 
    to the appropriate committees of Congress a detailed report setting 
    forth a stabilization strategy for such country.
        (2) Elements of strategy.--The stabilization strategy required 
    by paragraph (1) shall set forth the following:
            (A) The United States interests in conducting stabilization 
        activities in the country specified in subsection (b)(2).
            (B) The key foreign partners and actors in such country.
            (C) The desired end states and objectives of the United 
        States stabilization activities in such country.
            (D) The Department of Defense support intended to be 
        provided for the stabilization activities of other Federal 
        agencies under subsection (a).
            (E) Any mechanism for civil-military coordination regarding 
        support for stabilization activities.
            (F) The mechanisms for monitoring and evaluating the 
        effectiveness of Department of Defense support for United 
        States stabilization activities in the area.
    (e) Implementation in Accordance With Guidance.--Support provided 
under subsection (a) shall be implemented in accordance with the 
guidance of the Department of Defense entitled ``DoD Directive 3000.05 
Stabilization'', dated December 13, 2018 (or successor guidance).
    (f) Report.--The Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the 
Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
Congress on an annual basis a report that includes the following:
        (1) The identification of each foreign area within countries 
    specified in subsection (b)(2) for which support to stabilization 
    has occurred.
        (2) The total amount spent by the Department of Defense, broken 
    out by recipient Federal agency and activity.
        (3) An assessment of the contribution of each activity toward 
    greater stability.
        (4) An articulation of any plans for continued Department of 
    Defense support to stabilization in the specified foreign area in 
    order to maintain or improve stability.
        (5) Other matters as the Secretary of Defense considers to be 
    appropriate.
    (g) Use of Funds.--
        (1) Source of funds.--Amounts for activities carried out under 
    this section in a fiscal year shall be derived only from amounts 
    authorized to be appropriated for such fiscal year for the 
    Department of Defense for Operation and Maintenance, Defense-wide.
        (2) Limitation.--Not more than $18,000,000 in each fiscal year 
    is authorized to be used to provide nonreimbursable support under 
    this section.
    (h) Expiration.--The authority provided under this section may not 
be exercised after December 31, 2020.
    (i) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term ``appropriate 
    committees of Congress'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
        (2) Logistic support, supplies, and services.--The term 
    ``logistic support, supplies, and services'' has the meaning given 
    the term in section 2350(1) of title 10, United States Code.

        Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan

SEC. 1211. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER DEFENSE ARTICLES AND 
PROVIDE DEFENSE SERVICES TO THE MILITARY AND SECURITY FORCES OF 
AFGHANISTAN.
    (a) Extension of Authority.--Subsection (h) of section 1222 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 
112-239; 126 Stat. 1992) is amended by striking ``December 31, 2020'' 
and inserting ``December 31, 2022''.
    (b) Excess Defense Articles.--Subsection (i)(2) of such section is 
amended by striking ``December 31, 2020'' each place it appears and 
inserting ``December 31, 2022''.
SEC. 1212. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO ACQUIRE PRODUCTS 
AND SERVICES PRODUCED IN COUNTRIES ALONG A MAJOR ROUTE OF SUPPLY TO 
AFGHANISTAN.
    (a) Termination of Authority.--Subsection (f) of section 801 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 
111-84; 123 Stat. 2399) is amended by striking ``December 31, 2019'' 
and inserting ``December 31, 2021''.
    (b) Report on Authority.--Such section, as so amended, is further 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) Report on Authority.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2020, and March 1, 
    2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate 
    congressional committees a report on the use of the authority 
    provided in subsection (a). The report shall address, at a minimum, 
    the following:
            ``(A) The number of determinations made by the Secretary 
        pursuant to subsection (b).
            ``(B) A description of the products and services acquired 
        using the authority.
            ``(C) The extent to which the use of the authority has met 
        the objectives of subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of subsection 
        (b)(2).
            ``(D) A list of the countries providing products or 
        services as a result of a determination made pursuant to 
        subsection (b).
        ``(2) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--For 
    purposes of this subsection, the term `appropriate congressional 
    committees' means--
            ``(A) the congressional defense committees; and
            ``(B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
        Senate.''.
SEC. 1213. AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN PAYMENTS TO REDRESS INJURY AND LOSS.
    (a) Authority.--During the period beginning on the date of the 
enactment of this Act and ending on December 31, 2022, not more than 
$3,000,000 for each calendar year, to be derived from funds authorized 
to be appropriated to the Office of the Secretary of Defense under the 
Operation and Maintenance, Defense-wide account, may be made available 
for ex gratia payments for damage, personal injury, or death that is 
incident to the use of force by the United States Armed Forces, a 
coalition that includes the United States, a military organization 
supporting the United States, or a military organization supporting the 
United States or such coalition.
    (b) Conditions on Payment.--An ex gratia payment authorized 
pursuant to subsection (a) may be provided only if--
        (1) the prospective foreign civilian recipient is determined by 
    the local military commander to be friendly to the United States;
        (2) a claim for damages would not be compensable under chapter 
    163 of title 10, United States Code (commonly known as the 
    ``Foreign Claims Act'');
        (3) the property damage, personal injury, or death was not 
    caused by action by an enemy;
        (4) the claimant suffered property damage, personal injury, or 
    death that was--
            (A) caused by the United States Armed Forces, a coalition 
        that includes the United States, or a military organization 
        supporting the United States or such a coalition; and
            (B) occurred during an operation carried out by the United 
        States, such coalition, or such military organization; and
        (5) the claimant had no involvement in planning or executing an 
    attack or other hostile action that gave rise to the use of force 
    by the United States, such coalition, or such military organization 
    resulting in such property damage, personal injury, or death.
    (c) Nature of Payment.--A payment provided pursuant to the 
authority under subsection (a) may not be construed or considered as an 
admission or acknowledgment of any legal obligation to provide 
compensation for any property damage, personal injury, or death.
    (d) Amount of Payments.--If the Secretary of Defense determines a 
payment under subsection (a) to be appropriate in a particular setting, 
the amounts of payments, if any, to be provided to civilians determined 
to have suffered harm incident to the use of force by the United States 
Armed Forces under the program should be determined pursuant to 
regulations prescribed by the Secretary and based on an assessment, 
conducted in consultation with the Secretary of State, that includes 
such factors as cultural appropriateness and prevailing economic 
conditions. A copy of any regulations so prescribed shall be provided 
to the congressional defense committees upon finalization.
    (e) Legal Advice.--Local military commanders shall receive legal 
advice before making ex gratia payments under this subsection. The 
legal advisor, under regulations of the Department of Defense, shall 
advise on whether an ex gratia payment is proper under this section and 
applicable Department of Defense regulations.
    (f) Written Record.--A written record of any ex gratia payment 
offered pursuant to the authority under subsection (a), and whether 
accepted or denied, shall be kept by the local military commander and 
on a timely basis submitted to the appropriate office in the Department 
of Defense as determined by the Secretary of Defense.
    (g) Quarterly Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and every 90 days thereafter, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
including the following:
        (1) With respect to each ex gratia payment made under the 
    authority in this subsection or any other authority during the 
    preceding 90-day period, each of the following:
            (A) The amount used for such payments and the country with 
        respect to which each such payment was made.
            (B) The manner in which claims for such payments were 
        verified.
            (C) The position of the official who approved the payment.
            (D) The manner in which payments are made.
        (2) With respect to a preceding 90-day period in which no ex 
    gratia payments were made--
            (A) whether any such payment was refused, along with the 
        reason for such refusal; or
            (B) any other reason for which no such payments were made.
    (h) Relation to Other Authorities.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the authority provided by this section shall be 
construed as the sole authority available to make ex gratia payments 
for property damage, personal injury, or death that is incident to the 
use of force by the United States Armed Forces.
SEC. 1214. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF SEMIANNUAL REPORT ON ENHANCING 
SECURITY AND STABILITY IN AFGHANISTAN.
    (a) Extension.--Paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of section 1225 of 
the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 127 Stat. 
3550), as most recently amended by section 1215 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 
1649), is further amended by striking ``December 15, 2020'' and 
inserting ``December 15, 2022''.
    (b) Form.--Paragraph (3) of such subsection is amended to read as 
follows:
        ``(3) Form.--Each report required under paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form without any designation relating to 
    dissemination control, but may include a classified annex.''.
    (c) Modification of Elements.--Subsection (b) of such section 1225, 
as amended by section 1215(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2480), is further 
amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) in the paragraph heading, by inserting ``and taking 
        into account the august 2017 strategy of the united states'' 
        after ``2014'';
            (B) by amending subparagraph (A) to read as follows:
            ``(A) the strategy and objectives of any post-2014 United 
        States mission, including the 2017 South Asia Strategy of the 
        United States and any subsequent United States strategy, and 
        any mission agreed by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
        (NATO), that are pertinent to--
                ``(i) training, advising, and assisting the ANSF; or
                ``(ii) conducting counterrorism operations in 
            Afghanistan; and''; and
            (C) in subparagraph (B)--
                (i) by striking the period at the end and inserting a 
            semicolon;
                (ii) by striking ``in the assessment of any such'' and 
            inserting ``in the assessment of--
                ``(i) any such''; and
                (iii) by adding at the end the following new clauses:
                ``(ii) the United States counterterrorism mission; and
                ``(iii) efforts by the Department of Defense to support 
            reconciliation efforts and develop conditions for the 
            expansion of the reach of the Government of Afghanistan 
            throughout Afghanistan.'';
        (2) in paragraph (2)--
            (A) by inserting ``, including the progress of the 
        Government of Afghanistan on securing Afghan territory and 
        population,'' after ``the current security conditions in 
        Afghanistan''; and
            (B) by striking ``and the Haqqani Network'' and inserting 
        ``the Haqqani Network, and the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria 
        Khorasan''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(9) Monitoring and evaluation measures relating to asff.--A 
    description of the monitoring and evaluation measures that the 
    Department of Defense and the Government of Afghanistan are taking 
    to ensure that funds of the Afghanistan Security Forces Fund 
    provided to the Government of Afghanistan as direct government-to-
    government assistance are not subject to waste, fraud, or abuse.''.
SEC. 1215. SPECIAL IMMIGRANT VISA PROGRAM REPORTING REQUIREMENT.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the Department of State 
shall submit a report, which may contain a classified annex, to--
        (1) the Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on Foreign 
    Relations, and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on Foreign 
    Affairs, and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
    Representatives.
    (b) Contents.--The report submitted under subsection (a) shall 
evaluate the obstacles to effective protection of Afghan and Iraqi 
allies through the special immigrant visa programs and suggestions for 
improvements in future programs, including information relating to--
        (1) the hiring of locally employed staff and contractors;
        (2) documenting the identity and employment of locally employed 
    staff and contractors of the United States Government, including 
    the possibility of establishing a central database of employees of 
    the United States Government and its contractors;
        (3) the protection and safety of employees of locally employed 
    staff and contractors;
        (4) means of expediting processing at all stages of the process 
    for applicants, including consideration of reducing required forms;
        (5) appropriate staffing levels for expedited processing 
    domestically and abroad;
        (6) the effect of uncertainty of visa availability on visa 
    processing;
        (7) the cost and availability of medical examinations; and
        (8) means to reduce delays in interagency processing and 
    security checks.
    (c) Consultation.--In preparing the report under subsection (a), 
the Inspector General shall consult with current and, to the extent 
possible, former employees of--
        (1) the Department of State, Bureau of Consular Affairs, Visa 
    Office;
        (2) the Department of State, Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs and 
    South and Central Asian Affairs, Executive Office;
        (3) the United States embassy in Kabul, Afghanistan, Consular 
    Section;
        (4) the United States embassy in Baghdad, Iraq, Consular 
    Section;
        (5) the Department of Homeland Security, U.S. Citizenship and 
    Immigration Services;
        (6) the Department of Defense; and
        (7) non-governmental organizations providing legal aid in the 
    special immigrant visa application process.
SEC. 1216. MEANINGFUL INCLUSION OF AFGHAN WOMEN IN PEACE NEGOTIATIONS.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of State, in coordination with the 
Secretary of Defense, shall seek to ensure the meaningful participation 
of Afghan women in the peace process in Afghanistan in a manner 
consistent with the Women, Peace, and Security Act of 2017 (22 U.S.C. 
2152j et seq.), including through advocacy for the inclusion of Afghan 
women in ongoing and future negotiations to end the conflict in 
Afghanistan.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in coordination with the 
Secretary of Defense, shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
Congress a report describing the steps taken to fulfill the duties of 
the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense under subsection 
(a).
    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1217. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF 
CERTAIN COALITION NATIONS FOR SUPPORT PROVIDED TO UNITED STATES 
MILITARY OPERATIONS.
    (a) Extension.--Subsection (a) of section 1233 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 
Stat. 393), as most recently amended by section 1225 of the John S. 
McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public 
Law 115-232), is further amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Authority.--From funds made available for the Department of 
Defense for the period beginning on October 1, 2019, and ending on 
December 31, 2020, for overseas contingency operations for operation 
and maintenance, Defense-wide activities, the Secretary of Defense may 
reimburse any key cooperating nation (other than Pakistan) for--
        ``(1) logistical and military support provided by that nation 
    to or in connection with United States military operations in 
    Afghanistan, Iraq, or Syria; and
        ``(2) logistical, military, and other support, including 
    access, provided by that nation to or in connection with United 
    States military operations described in paragraph (1).''.
    (b) Modification to Limitation.--Subsection (d)(1) of such section 
is amended--
        (1) by striking ``October 1, 2018, and ending on December 31, 
    2019'' and inserting ``October 1, 2019, and ending on December 31, 
    2020''; and
        (2) by striking ``$350,000,000'' and inserting 
    ``$450,000,000''.
SEC. 1218. SUPPORT FOR RECONCILIATION ACTIVITIES LED BY THE GOVERNMENT 
OF AFGHANISTAN.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may, with the concurrence 
of the Secretary of State, provide covered support for reconciliation 
activities to one or more designated persons or entities or Federal 
agencies.
    (b) Framework for Use of Authority.--Not later than 90 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, with 
the concurrence of the Secretary of State, shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report on the use of the authority 
under subsection (a) that includes--
        (1) a framework for use of such authority;
        (2) evaluation requirements; and
        (3) a prioritization of covered support.
    (c) Designation.--Not later than 15 days before the Secretary of 
Defense designates an individual or organization as a designated person 
or entity, the Secretary shall notify the congressional defense 
committees of the intent of the Secretary to make such designation.
    (d) Reimbursement.--
        (1) Designated persons or entities.--The Secretary of Defense 
    may provide covered support to a designated person or entity on a 
    nonreimbursable basis.
        (2) Federal agencies.--The Secretary of Defense may provide 
    covered support to a Federal agency on a reimbursable or 
    nonreimbursable basis.
    (e) Location of Covered Support.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
    Secretary of Defense may only provide covered support within 
    Afghanistan.
        (2) Exception.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the Secretary of 
    Defense may provide covered support in Pakistan if the Secretary of 
    Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, 
    determines, and certifies to the appropriate committees of 
    Congress, that providing covered support in Pakistan is in the 
    national security interest of the United States.
    (f) Notification.--Not later than 15 days after the date on which 
the Secretary of Defense provides covered support in Pakistan, or an 
individual expenditure for covered support reaches a monetary threshold 
of $75,000 or greater, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress written notice that includes--
        (1) the intended recipient of such covered support and the 
    specific covered support to be provided; and
        (2) a description of the manner in which such covered support 
    facilitates reconciliation.
    (g) Funding.--
        (1) Source of funds.--Amounts for covered support may only be 
    derived from amounts authorized to be appropriated for the 
    Department of Defense for operation and maintenance.
        (2) Limitation.--Not more than $15,000,000 may be used in each 
    fiscal year to provide covered support under this section.
    (h) Rule of Construction.--Covered support shall not be construed 
to violate section 2339, 2339A, or 2339B of title 18, United States 
Code.
    (i) Reports.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, and quarterly thereafter, the Secretary of 
    Defense shall, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, 
    submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on 
    covered support during the preceding 90-day period.
        (2) Elements.--Each report under this subsection shall include, 
    for the preceding reporting period, the following:
            (A) A summary of the reconciliation activities for which 
        covered support was provided.
            (B) A description of the covered support, by class or type, 
        and the designated person or entity or Federal agency that 
        received each class or type of covered support.
            (C) The total dollar amount of each class or type of 
        covered support, including budget details.
            (D) The intended duration of each provision of covered 
        support.
            (E) Any other matter the Secretary of Defense considers 
        appropriate.
    (j) Sunset.--The authority to carry out this section shall 
terminate on December 31, 2020.
    (k) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term ``appropriate 
    committees of Congress'' means--
            (A) the congressional defense committees;
            (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
            (C) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives.
        (2) Covered support.--
            (A) In general.--The term ``covered support'' means 
        logistic support, supplies, and services (as defined in section 
        2350 of title 10, United States Code) and security provided 
        under this section.
            (B) Exclusions.--The term ``covered support'' does not 
        include the following support, supplies, or services described 
        in section 2350 of title 10, United States Code:
                (i) Ammunition, construction incident to base 
            operations support, training services, and the temporary 
            use of general purpose vehicles.
                (ii) With respect to any member of the Taliban, 
            transportation in vehicles or on aircraft owned by the 
            United States Government.
        (3) Designated person or entity.--
            (A) In general.--The term ``designated person or entity'' 
        means an individual or organization designated by the Secretary 
        of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, as 
        necessary to facilitate a reconciliation activity.
            (B) Exclusion.--The term ``designated person or entity'' 
        does not include a Federal agency or department.
        (4) Reconciliation activity.--The term ``reconciliation 
    activity'' means any activity intended to support, facilitate, or 
    enable a political settlement between the Government of Afghanistan 
    and the Taliban for the purpose of ending the war in Afghanistan.
        (5) Security.--The term ``security'' means any measure 
    determined by the Secretary of Defense to be necessary to protect 
    reconciliation activities from hostile acts.
SEC. 1219. MODIFICATION AND EXTENSION OF THE AFGHAN SPECIAL IMMIGRANT 
VISA PROGRAM.
    (a) Principal Aliens.--Subclause (I) of section 602(b)(2)(A)(ii) of 
the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 (8 U.S.C. 1101 note) is 
amended to read as follows:

                    ``(I) by, or on behalf of, the United States 
                Government; or''.

    (b) Extension of Afghan Special Immigrant Program.--Section 
602(b)(3)(F) of the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 (8 U.S.C. 1101 
note) is amended--
        (1) in the heading, by striking ``2015, 2016, and 2017'' and 
    inserting ``2015 through 2020'';
        (2) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking ``18,500'' 
    and inserting ``22,500'';
        (3) in clause (i), by striking ``December 31, 2020'' and 
    inserting ``December 31, 2021''; and
        (4) in clause (ii), by striking ``December 31, 2020'' and 
    inserting ``December 31, 2021''.

         Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Syria, Iraq, and Iran

SEC. 1221. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY AND LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS TO 
PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO COUNTER THE ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ AND SYRIA.
    (a) Limitation on Use of Funds.--Of the amounts authorized to be 
appropriated for fiscal year 2020 by this Act for activities under 
section 1236 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 
Stat. 3558), as amended by this section, not more than 50 percent may 
be obligated or expended for such activities until the date on which 
the Secretary of Defense submits to the congressional defense 
committees a report setting forth the following:
        (1) An assessment of--
            (A) security in liberated areas in Iraq;
            (B) the extent to which security forces trained and 
        equipped, directly or indirectly, by the United States are 
        prepared to provide post-conflict stabilization and security in 
        such liberated areas; and
            (C) the effectiveness of security forces in the post-
        conflict environment and an identification of which such forces 
        will provide post-conflict stabilization and security in such 
        liberated areas.
        (2) A summary of available information relating to the 
    disposition of militia groups throughout Iraq, with particular 
    focus on groups in areas liberated from ISIS or in sensitive areas 
    with historically mixed ethnic or minority communities.
        (3) Any updates to or changes in the plan, strategy, process, 
    vetting requirements and process as described in subsection (e) of 
    such section 1236, and end-use monitoring mechanisms and 
    procedures.
        (4) An identification of the specific units of the Iraqi 
    Security Forces to receive training and equipment or other support 
    in fiscal year 2020.
        (5) A plan for ensuring that any vehicles or equipment provided 
    to the Iraqi Security Forces pursuant to such authority are 
    maintained in subsequent fiscal years using funds of Iraq.
        (6) A description of any misuse or loss of provided equipment 
    and how such misuse or loss is being mitigated.
        (7) An estimate, by fiscal year, of the funding anticipated to 
    be required for support of the Iraqi Security Forces during the 
    five fiscal years beginning in fiscal year 2020.
        (8) A plan for normalizing assistance to the Iraqi Security 
    Forces under chapter 16 of title 10, United States Code, beginning 
    in fiscal year 2020.
        (9) A detailed plan for the obligation and expenditure of the 
    funds requested for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of Defense 
    for stipends.
        (10) A plan for the transition to the Government of Iraq the 
    responsibility for funding for stipends for any fiscal year after 
    fiscal year 2020.
        (11) A description of how attacks against United States or 
    coalition personnel are being mitigated, statistics on any such 
    attacks, including ``green-on-blue'' attacks.
        (12) A list of the forces or elements of forces that are 
    restricted from receiving assistance under subsection (a) of such 
    section 1236, other than the forces or elements of forces with 
    respect to which the Secretary of Defense has exercised the waiver 
    authority under subsection (j) of such section 1236, as a result of 
    vetting required by subsection (e) of such section 1236 or by 
    section 362 of title 10, United States Code, and a detailed 
    description of the reasons for such restriction, including for each 
    force or element, as applicable, the following:
            (A) Information relating to gross violation of human rights 
        committed by such force or element, including the time-frame of 
        the alleged violation.
            (B) The source of the information described in subparagraph 
        (A) and an assessment of the veracity of the information.
            (C) The association of such force or element with terrorist 
        groups or groups associated with the Government of Iran.
            (D) The amount and type of any assistance provided to such 
        force or element by the Government of Iran.
    (b) Funding.--Subsection (g) of section 1236 of the Carl Levin and 
Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3558) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``fiscal year 2019'' and inserting ``fiscal 
    year 2020''; and
        (2) by striking ``$850,000,000'' and inserting 
    ``$645,000,000''.
    (c) Clarification With Respect to Scope of Authority.--
        (1) In general.--Subsection (j)(2) of such section 1236 is 
    amended to read as follows:
        ``(2) Scope of assistance authority.--Notwithstanding paragraph 
    (1), the authority granted by subsection (a) may only be exercised 
    in consultation with the Government of Iraq.''.
        (2) Technical correction.--The heading of subsection (j) of 
    such section 1236 is amended by inserting ``; Scope'' after 
    ``Authority''.
    (d) Technical Correction.--Subsection (c) of such section 1236 is 
amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking ``subsection 
(a)(1)'' and inserting ``subsection (b)(1)(A)''.
    (e) Additional Technical Correction.--Effective as of December 12, 
2017, and as if included therein as enacted, section 1222 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 
115-91; 131 Stat. 1651) is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (b); and
        (2) by striking subsection (c)(3).
SEC. 1222. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE 
ASSISTANCE TO VETTED SYRIAN GROUPS AND INDIVIDUALS.
    (a) Extension and Modification.--Section 1209 of the Carl Levin and 
Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3559) is amended as follows:
        (1) In subsection (a)--
            (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``with a cost'' and all that follows through ``through December 
        31, 2019'' and inserting ``and sustainment to appropriately 
        vetted Syrian groups and individuals through December 31, 
        2020''; and
            (B) by striking paragraphs (1) through (3) and inserting 
        the following:
        ``(1) Defending the Syrian people from attacks by the Islamic 
    State of Iraq and Syria.
        ``(2) Securing territory formerly controlled by the Islamic 
    State of Iraq and Syria.
        ``(3) Protecting the United States and its partners and allies 
    from the threats posed by the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, al 
    Qaeda, and associated forces in Syria.
        ``(4) Providing appropriate support to vetted Syrian groups and 
    individuals to conduct temporary and humane detention and 
    repatriation of Islamic State of Iraq and Syria foreign terrorist 
    fighters in accordance with all laws and obligations related to the 
    conduct of such operations, including, as applicable--
            ``(A) the law of armed conflict;
            ``(B) internationally recognized human rights;
            ``(C) the principle of non-refoulement;
            ``(D) the Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, 
        Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (done at New York 
        on December 10, 1984); and
            ``(E) the United Nations Convention Relating to the Status 
        of Refugees, done at Geneva July 28, 1951 (as made applicable 
        by the Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees, done at New 
        York January 31, 1967 (19 UST 6223)).''.
        (2) By amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
    ``(b) Notice Before Provision of Assistance.--
        ``(1) In general.--In accordance with the requirements under 
    paragraph (2), the Secretary of Defense shall notify the 
    congressional defense committees in writing of the use of the 
    relevant authority to provide assistance and include the following:
            ``(A) The requirements and process used to determine 
        appropriately vetted recipients.
            ``(B) The mechanisms and procedures that will be used to 
        monitor and report to the appropriate congressional committees 
        and leadership of the House of Representatives and Senate on 
        unauthorized end-use of provided training and equipment or 
        other violations of relevant law by appropriately vetted 
        recipients.
            ``(C) The amount, type, and purpose of assistance to be 
        funded and the recipient of the assistance.
            ``(D) The goals and objectives of the assistance.
            ``(E) The number and role of United States Armed Forces 
        personnel involved.
            ``(F) Any other relevant details.
        ``(2) Timing of required notice.--A notice described in 
    paragraph (1) shall be required--
            ``(A) not later than 15 days before the expenditure of each 
        10-percent increment of the amount made available in fiscal 
        year 2019 or fiscal year 2020 to carry out the authorization in 
        this section; or
            ``(B) not later than 48 hours after such an expenditure, if 
        the Secretary determines that extraordinary circumstances that 
        affect the national security of the United States exist.''.
        (3) By amending subsection (c) to read as follows:
    ``(c) Form.--The notifications required under subsection (b) shall 
be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified 
annex.''.
        (4) By amending subsection (d) to read as follows:
    ``(d) Quarterly Progress Reports.--
        ``(1) In general.--Beginning on January 15, 2020, and every 90 
    days thereafter, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
    Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
    committees and leadership of the House of Representatives and the 
    Senate a progress report.
        ``(2) Matters to be included.--Each progress report under 
    paragraph (1) shall include, based on the most recent quarterly 
    information, the following:
            ``(A) A description of the appropriately vetted recipients 
        receiving assistance under subsection (a), including a 
        description of their geographical locations, demographic 
        profiles, political affiliations, and current capabilities.
            ``(B) A description of training, equipment, supplies, 
        stipends, and other support provided to appropriately vetted 
        recipients under subsection (a) and a statement of the amount 
        of funds expended for such purposes during the period covered 
        by the report.
            ``(C) Any misuse or loss of provided training and equipment 
        and how such misuse or loss is being mitigated.
            ``(D) An assessment of the recruitment, throughput, and 
        retention rates of appropriately vetted recipients.
            ``(E) An assessment of the operational effectiveness of 
        appropriately vetted recipients in meeting the purposes 
        specified in subsection (a).
            ``(F) A description of the current and planned posture of 
        United States forces and the planned level of engagement by 
        such forces with appropriately vetted recipients, including the 
        oversight of equipment provided under this section and the 
        activities conducted by such appropriately vetted recipients.
            ``(G) A detailed explanation of the relationship between 
        appropriately vetted recipients and civilian governance 
        authorities, including a description of efforts to ensure 
        appropriately vetted recipients are subject to the control of 
        competent civilian authorities.
            ``(H) A description of United States Government 
        stabilization objectives and activities carried out in areas 
        formerly controlled by the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, 
        including significant projects and funding associated with such 
        projects.
            ``(I) A description of coalition contributions to the 
        purposes specified in subsection (a) and other related 
        stabilization activities.
            ``(J) With respect to Islamic State of Iraq and Syria 
        foreign terrorist fighters--
                ``(i) an estimate of the number of such individuals 
            being detained by appropriately vetted Syrian groups and 
            individuals;
                ``(ii) an estimate of the number of such individuals 
            that have been repatriated and the countries to which such 
            individuals have been repatriated; and
                ``(iii) a description of United States Government 
            support provided to facilitate the repatriation of such 
            individuals.

                    ``(I) An assessment of the extent to which 
                appropriately vetted Syrian groups and individuals have 
                enabled progress toward establishing inclusive, 
                representative, accountable, and civilian-led 
                governance and security structures in territories 
                liberated from the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria.''.

        (5) In subsection (e)(1)(A), by striking ``include,'' and all 
    that follows through ``(ISIL)'' and inserting ``include the Islamic 
    State of Iraq and Syria''.
        (6) By striking subsection (f) and inserting the following:
    ``(f) Restriction on Scope of Assistance in the Form of Weapons.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary may only provide assistance in 
    the form of weapons pursuant to the authority under subsection (a) 
    if such weapons are small arms or light weapons.
        ``(2) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the restriction under 
    paragraph (1) upon certification to the appropriate congressional 
    committees that such provision of law would (but for the waiver) 
    impede national security objectives of the United States by 
    prohibiting, restricting, delaying, or otherwise limiting the 
    provision of assistance.''.
        (5) In subsection (g)--
            (A) by inserting ``, at the end of the 15-day period 
        beginning on the date the Secretary notifies the congressional 
        defense committees of the amount, source, and intended purpose 
        of such contributions'' after ``as authorized by this 
        section''; and
            (B) by striking ``operation and maintenance accounts'' and 
        all that follows through the end of the subsection and 
        inserting ``accounts.''.
        (6) By amending subsection (l) to read as follows:
    ``(l) Limitation on Cost of Construction and Repair Projects.--
        ``(1) In general.--The cost of construction and repair projects 
    carried out under this section may not exceed, in any fiscal year--
            ``(A) $4,000,000 per project; or
            ``(B) $20,000,000 in the aggregate.
        ``(2) Foreign contributions.--The limitation under paragraph 
    (1) shall not apply to the expenditure of foreign contributions in 
    excess of the per-project or aggregate limitation set forth in that 
    paragraph.''.
    (b) Availability of Authority.--Not more than 10 percent of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for 
activities under the authority provided by section 1209 of the Carl 
Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3559), as amended 
by subsection (a) of this section, may be obligated or expended until 
the first quarterly report required to be submitted pursuant to 
subsection (d) of such section 1209 (as so amended) has been submitted 
to the appropriate congressional committees and leadership in 
accordance with such subsection.
SEC. 1223. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO SUPPORT OPERATIONS AND 
ACTIVITIES OF THE OFFICE OF SECURITY COOPERATION IN IRAQ.
    (a) Modification.--Section 1215 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (10 U.S.C. 113 note) is amended 
as follows:
        (1) Authority.--By amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
    ``(a) Authority.--The Secretary of Defense may support United 
States Government security cooperation activities in Iraq by providing 
funds for the operations and activities of the Office of Security 
Cooperation in Iraq.''.
        (2) Types of support.--In subsection (b)--
            (A) by striking the comma after ``life support'' and 
        inserting ``and''; and
            (B) by striking ``, and construction and renovation of 
        facilities''.
        (3) Limitation on amount.--In subsection (c)--
            (A) by striking ``fiscal year 2019'' and inserting ``fiscal 
        year 2020''; and
            (B) by striking ``$45,300,000'' and inserting 
        ``$30,000,000''.
        (4) Source of funds.--In subsection (d), by striking ``fiscal 
    year 2019'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2020''.
        (5) Coverage of costs of the office of security cooperation in 
    iraq.--In subsection (e)--
            (A) in the heading, by striking ``of OSCI'';
            (B) by inserting ``appropriate administrative charges'' 
        after ``includes'' and
            (C) by striking ``, charges sufficient to recover'' and all 
        that follows through ``with such sale''.
        (6) Additional authority.--In subsection (f), by adding at the 
    end the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) Sunset.--The authority provided in this subsection shall 
    terminate on the date that is 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
    2020.''.
        (7) Reports.--In subsection (g)--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``September 30, 2015'' 
        and inserting ``September 30, 2020''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2)--
                (i) by striking ``current'' each place it appears;
                (ii) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``Iraq, 
            including'' and inserting ``Iraq that also addresses'';
                (iii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``the programs 
            conducted'' and all that follows through ``will address'' 
            and inserting ``United States security assistance and 
            security cooperation activities are intended to address''; 
            and
                (iv) by amending subparagraph (F) to read as follows:
            ``(F) An evaluation of the effectiveness of United States 
        efforts to promote respect for human rights, military 
        professionalism, and respect for legitimate civilian authority 
        in Iraq.''.
    (b) Limitation on Availability of Funds.--Such section 1215 is 
further amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(h) Limitation on Availability of Funds.--Of the amount made 
available for fiscal year 2020 to carry out section 1215 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012, not more than 
$20,000,000 may be obligated or expended for the Office of Security 
Cooperation in Iraq until the date on which the Secretary of Defense 
certifies to the congressional defense committees, the Committee on 
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
Foreign Relations of the Senate, that each of the following reforms 
relating to that Office has been completed:
        ``(1) The appointment of a Senior Defense Official/Defense 
    Attache to oversee the Office.
        ``(2) The development of a staffing plan to reorganize the 
    Office in a manner similar to that of other security cooperation 
    offices in the region that emphasizes the placement of personnel 
    with regional or security cooperation expertise in key leadership 
    positions and closes duplicative or extraneous sections.
        ``(3) The initiation of bilateral engagement with the 
    Government of Iraq with the objective of establishing a joint 
    mechanism for security assistance planning, including a five-year 
    security assistance roadmap for developing sustainable military 
    capacity and capabilities and enabling defense institution building 
    and reform.''.
SEC. 1224. ESTABLISHING A COORDINATOR FOR DETAINED ISIS MEMBERS AND 
RELEVANT DISPLACED POPULATIONS IN SYRIA.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the President, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of State, the Director of National 
Intelligence, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Attorney General, 
shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report 
identifying whether a senior-level coordinator exists on all matters 
for the United States Government relating to ISIS members who are in 
Syrian Democratic Forces custody, including with respect to--
        (1) the long-term disposition of such ISIS members, including 
    in all matters in connection with--
            (A) repatriation, transfer, prosecution, and intelligence-
        gathering;
            (B) all multilateral and international engagements led by 
        the Department of State and other agencies that are related to 
        the current and future handling, detention, and prosecution of 
        such ISIS members, including with the International Criminal 
        Police Organization; and
            (C) coordinating the provision of technical and evidentiary 
        assistance to foreign countries to aid in the successful 
        prosecution of such ISIS members, as appropriate, in accordance 
        with international humanitarian law and other internationally 
        recognized human rights and rule of law standards; and
        (2) all multilateral and international engagements related to 
    the humanitarian access, provision of basic services, freedom of 
    movement, security and safe return of internally displaced persons 
    and refugees at camps or facilities in Syria that hold family 
    members of such ISIS members.
    (b) Designation.--If the President is unable to identify a senior-
level coordinator for all matters described in subsection (a), the 
President, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary 
of State, the Director of National Intelligence, the Secretary of the 
Treasury, and the Attorney General, shall designate an existing 
official within the executive branch to serve as senior-level 
coordinator to coordinate, in conjunction with other relevant agencies, 
all matters described in such subsection.
    (c) Retention of Authority.--The appointment of a senior-level 
coordinator pursuant to subsection (b) shall not deprive any agency of 
any authority to independently perform functions of that agency.
    (d) Annual Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than once each year 
    thereafter through January 31, 2021, the individual designated 
    under subsection (b) shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
    Congress a detailed report regarding the following detained ISIS 
    members:
            (A) Alexanda Kotey.
            (B) El Shafee Elsheikh.
            (C) Aine Lesley Davis.
            (D) Umm Sayyaf.
            (E) Any other high-value detained ISIS member that the 
        coordinator reasonably determines to be subject to criminal 
        prosecution.
        (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include, at 
    a minimum, the following:
            (A) A detailed description of the facilities where detained 
        ISIS members described in paragraph (1) are being held, 
        including security and management of such facilities and 
        adherence to international humanitarian law standards.
            (B) An analysis of all United States efforts to prosecute 
        detained ISIS members described in paragraph (1) and the 
        outcomes of such efforts. Any information, the disclosure of 
        which may violate Department of Justice policy or law, relating 
        to a prosecution or investigation may be withheld from a report 
        under paragraph (1).
            (C) A detailed description of any option to expedite 
        prosecution of any detained ISIS member described in paragraph 
        (1), including in a court of competent jurisdiction outside of 
        the United States.
            (D) An analysis of factors on the ground in Syria and Iraq 
        that may result in the unintended release of detained ISIS 
        members described in paragraph (1), and an assessment of any 
        measures available to mitigate such releases.
            (E) A detailed description of efforts to coordinate the 
        disposition and security of detained ISIS members described in 
        paragraph (1) with other countries and international 
        organizations, including the International Criminal Police 
        Organization, to ensure secure chains of custody and locations 
        of such ISIS members.
            (F) An analysis of the manner in which the United States 
        Government communicates on such proposals and efforts to the 
        families of United States citizens believed to be a victim of a 
        criminal act by a detained ISIS member.
            (G) An analysis of all efforts between the United States 
        and partner countries within the Global Coalition to Defeat 
        ISIS or other countries to share intelligence or evidence that 
        may aid in the prosecution of ISIS members, and any legal 
        obstacles that may hinder such efforts.
            (H) A description of all multilateral and international 
        engagements related to the humanitarian access and provision of 
        basic services to and freedom of movement and security and safe 
        return of internally displaced persons and refugees at camps or 
        facilities in Iraq, Syria, or any other area affected by ISIS 
        activity, including--
                (i) any current or future potential threats to United 
            States national security interests emanating from such 
            individuals (including an analysis of the Al-Hol camp and 
            annexes); and
                (ii) United States Government plans and strategies to 
            respond to any such threats.
        (3) Form.--The report under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in 
    unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (e) Sunset.--The requirements under this section shall sunset on 
January 31, 2021.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term ``appropriate 
    committees of Congress'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, the Committee on the Judiciary, the 
        Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Select 
        Committee on Intelligence, and the Committee on Appropriations 
        of the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, the Committee on the Judiciary, Committee on 
        Financial Services, the Permanent Select Committee on 
        Intelligence, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
        of Representatives.
        (2) ISIS member.--The term ``ISIS member'' means a person who 
    was part of, or substantially supported, the Islamic State of Iraq 
    and Syria.
SEC. 1225. REPORT ON LESSONS LEARNED FROM EFFORTS TO LIBERATE MOSUL AND 
RAQQAH FROM CONTROL OF THE ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ AND SYRIA.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on lessons learned from 
coalition operations to liberate Mosul, Iraq, and Raqqah, Syria, from 
control of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS).
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
a description of lessons learned in connection with each of the 
following:
        (1) Combat in densely populated urban environments.
        (2) Enablement of partner forces, including unique aspects of 
    conducting combined operations with regular and irregular forces.
        (3) Advise, assist, and accompany efforts, including such 
    efforts conducted remotely.
        (4) Integration of United States general purpose and special 
    operations forces.
        (5) Integration of United States and international forces.
        (6) Irregular and unconventional warfare approaches, including 
    the application of training and doctrine by special operations and 
    general purpose forces.
        (7) Use of command, control, communications, computer, 
    intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance systems and 
    techniques.
        (8) Logistics.
        (9) Information operations.
        (10) Targeting and weaponeering, including efforts to avoid 
    civilian casualties and other collateral damage.
        (11) Facilitation of flows of internally displaced people and 
    humanitarian assistance.
        (12) Such other matters as the Secretary considers appropriate 
    and could benefit training, doctrine, and resourcing of future 
    operations.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 1226. EXPANSION OF AVAILABILITY OF FINANCIAL ASSETS OF IRAN TO 
VICTIMS OF TERRORISM.
    Section 502 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act 
of 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8772) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
            (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``in the United 
        States'' and inserting ``by or'';
            (B) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``, or an asset that 
        would be blocked if the asset were located in the United 
        States,'' after ``unblocked)''; and
            (C) in the flush text at the end--
                (i) by inserting after ``in aid of execution'' the 
            following: ``, or to an order directing that the asset be 
            brought to the State in which the court is located and 
            subsequently to execution or attachment in aid of 
            execution,''; and
                (ii) by inserting ``, without regard to concerns 
            relating to international comity'' after ``resources for 
            such an act''; and
        (2) in subsection (b)--
            (A) by striking ``that are identified'' and inserting the 
        following: ``that are--
        ``(1) identified'';
            (B) by striking the period at the end and inserting ``; 
        and''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(2) identified in and the subject of proceedings in the 
    United States District Court for the Southern District of New York 
    in Peterson et al. v. Islamic Republic of Iran et al., Case No. 13 
    Civ. 9195 (LAP).''.
SEC. 1227. REPORT ON THE STATUS OF DECONFLICTION CHANNELS WITH IRAN.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the President shall submit to Congress a report on the 
status of deconfliction channels with Iran.
    (b) Matters to Be Included.--The report required by subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
        (1) The status of United States diplomatic deconfliction 
    channels with Iran to prevent miscalculation, define ambiguities, 
    and correct misunderstandings that could otherwise lead to 
    unintended consequences, including unnecessary or harmful military 
    activity.
        (2) The status of United States military-to-military 
    deconfliction channels with Iran to prevent military and diplomatic 
    miscalculation.
        (3) An analysis of the need and rationale for bilateral and 
    multilateral deconfliction channels, including an assessment of 
    recent United States experience with such channels of communication 
    with Iran.
SEC. 1228. PROHIBITION ON PROVISION OF WEAPONS AND OTHER FORMS OF 
SUPPORT TO CERTAIN ORGANIZATIONS.
    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
otherwise made available for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 
2020 may be used to knowingly provide weapons or any other form of 
support to Al Qaeda, the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), Jabhat 
Fateh al Sham, Hamas, Hizballah, Palestine Islamic Jihad, al-Shabaab, 
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, or any individual or group 
affiliated with any such organization.

         Subtitle D--Matters Relating to the Russian Federation

SEC. 1231. EXTENSION OF LIMITATION ON MILITARY COOPERATION BETWEEN THE 
UNITED STATES AND RUSSIA.
    Section 1232(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2488), is amended by 
striking ``or 2019'' and inserting ``, 2019, or 2020''.
SEC. 1232. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS RELATING TO SOVEREIGNTY 
OF RUSSIA OVER CRIMEA.
    (a) Prohibition.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2020 for the 
Department of Defense may be obligated or expended to implement any 
activity that recognizes the sovereignty of Russia over Crimea.
    (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the 
Secretary of State, may waive the prohibition under subsection (a) if 
the Secretary of Defense--
        (1) determines that a waiver is in the national security 
    interest of the United States; and
        (2) on the date on which the waiver is invoked, submits a 
    notification of the waiver and a justification of the reason for 
    seeking the waiver to--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1233. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON UPDATING AND MODERNIZING EXISTING 
AGREEMENTS TO AVERT MISCALCULATION BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND 
RUSSIA.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) conventional arms control and confidence and security 
    building measures have played an important role in helping to 
    increase military transparency and reduce the risk of 
    miscalculation;
        (2) Russia's violations of the sovereignty and territorial 
    integrity of Georgia and Ukraine, and Russia's ongoing 
    destabilizing and aggressive behavior, has undermined peace, 
    security, and stability in Europe and beyond;
        (3) Russia's unilateral suspension and violation of the Treaty 
    on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe, done at Vienna November 19, 
    1990, and entered into force November 9, 1992, and selective 
    implementation of the Vienna Document of the Organization for 
    Security and Cooperation in Europe 2011 have contributed to a 
    greater risk of miscalculation;
        (4) Russia's unsafe and unprofessional interactions with United 
    States aircraft and vessels--
            (A) are contrary to the spirit of--
                (i) the Agreement Between the Government of the United 
            States and the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist 
            Republics on the Prevention of Incidents On and Over the 
            High Seas, done at Moscow May 25, 1972, and entered into 
            force May 25, 1972; and
                (ii) the Agreement on the Prevention of Dangerous 
            Military Activities Agreement, done at Moscow June 12, 
            1989, and entered into force January 1, 1990; and
            (B) erode military transparency, predictability, and trust;
        (5) the United States remains committed to upholding its 
    current treaty obligations and commitments with respect to 
    conventional arms control and confidence and security building 
    measures; and
        (6) the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State should 
    explore options, as practicable, for updated or new frameworks for 
    increasing military transparency, stability, and reducing the risk 
    of miscalculation, including through enhanced diplomatic engagement 
    and military-to-military dialogue.
SEC. 1234. UNITED STATES PARTICIPATION IN OPEN SKIES TREATY.
    (a) Notification Required.--Not later than 120 days before the 
provision of notice of intent to withdraw the United States from the 
Open Skies Treaty to either treaty depository pursuant to Article XV of 
the Treaty, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State shall 
jointly submit to the congressional defense committees, the Committee 
on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the Committee 
on Foreign Relations of the Senate a notification that--
        (1) such withdrawal is in the best interests of the United 
    States national security; and
        (2) the other state parties to the Treaty have been consulted 
    with respect to such withdrawal.
    (b) Repeal of Limitation on Use of Funds to Vote to Approve or 
Otherwise Adopt Any Implementing Decision of the Open Skies 
Consultative Commission and Modifications to Report.--
        (1) In general.--Section 1236 of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 
    Stat. 2491) is amended--
            (A) by striking subsections (a) and (b); and
            (B) by redesignating subsections (c), (d), (e), and (f) as 
        subsections (a), (b), (c), and (d), respectively.
        (2) Modifications to report.--Subsection (a) of such section, 
    as so redesignated, is amended--
            (A) in the heading, by striking ``Quarterly'' and inserting 
        ``Annual'';
            (B) in paragraph (1)--
                (i) by inserting ``the Secretary of State,'' before 
            ``the Secretary of Energy'';
                (ii) by striking ``quarterly basis'' and inserting 
            ``annual basis'';
                (iii) by striking ``by the Russian Federation over the 
            United States'' and inserting ``by all parties to the Open 
            Skies Treaty, including the United States, under the 
            Treaty''; and
                (iv) by striking ``calendar quarter'' and inserting 
            ``preceding calendar year''; and
            (C) in paragraph (2), by striking subparagraphs (B), (C), 
        and (D) and inserting the following:
            ``(B) In the case of an observation flight by the United 
        States, including an observation flight over the territory of 
        Russia--
                ``(i) an analysis of data collected that supports 
            United States intelligence and military collection goals; 
            and
                ``(ii) an assessment of data collected regarding 
            military activity that could not be collected through other 
            means.
            ``(C) In the case of an observation flight over the 
        territory of the United States--
                ``(i) an analysis of whether and the extent to which 
            any United States critical infrastructure was the subject 
            of image capture activities of such observation flight;
                ``(ii) an estimate for the mitigation costs imposed on 
            the Department of Defense or other United States Government 
            agencies by such observation flight; and
                ``(iii) an assessment of how such information is used 
            by the parties conducting the observation flight, for what 
            purpose, and how the information fits into the overall 
            collection posture.''.
        (3) Form.--Subsection (c) of such section, as so redesignated, 
    is amended by striking ``certification, report, and notice'' and 
    inserting ``report''.
        (4) Definitions.--Subsection (d) of such section, as so 
    redesignated, is amended--
            (A) by striking paragraphs (3) and (6); and
            (B) by redesignating paragraphs (4), (5), and (7) as 
        paragraphs (3), (4), and (5), respectively.
    (c) Open Skies: Implementation Plan.--Section 1235(a) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 
115-91; 131 Stat. 1660) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) by striking ``during such fiscal year'' and inserting 
        ``during a calendar year''; and
            (B) by striking ``the President submits'' and all that 
        follows and inserting ``the Secretary of Defense provides to 
        the appropriate congressional committees a report on a plan 
        described in paragraph (2) with respect to such calendar 
        year.'';
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``such fiscal year'' and 
    inserting ``such calendar year''; and
        (3) in paragraph (3), by striking ``a fiscal year and submit 
    the updated plan'' and inserting ``a calendar year and provide a 
    report on the updated plan''.
    (d) Definition of Open Skies Treaty; Treaty.--In this section, the 
term ``Open Skies Treaty'' or ``Treaty'' means the Treaty on Open 
Skies, done at Helsinki March 24, 1992, and entered into force January 
1, 2002.
SEC. 1235. MODIFICATIONS OF BRIEFING, NOTIFICATION, AND REPORTING 
REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO NON-COMPLIANCE BY THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION WITH 
ITS OBLIGATIONS UNDER THE INF TREATY.
    (a) Briefing Requirement.--Section 1244(d) of the Carl Levin and 
Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3565; 22 U.S.C. 2593a note) is 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``At the time'' and inserting the following:
        ``(1) In general.--At the time''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(2) Sunset.--The briefing requirement under paragraph (1) 
    shall be in effect so long as the INF Treaty remains in force.''.
    (b) Notification Requirement Relating to Coordination With 
Allies.--Section 1243(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1601) is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) Sunset.--The notification requirement under paragraph (1) 
    shall be in effect so long as the INF Treaty remains in force.''.
    (c) Notification Requirement Relating to Development, Deployment, 
or Test of a System Inconsistent With INF Treaty.--Section 1244(a) of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 
115-91; 131 Stat. 1673; 22 U.S.C. 2593a note) is amended by adding at 
the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) Sunset.--The notification requirement under paragraph (1) 
    shall be in effect so long as the INF Treaty remains in force.''.
    (d) Reporting Requirement Under Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 
2014.--Section 10(c) of the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014 (22 
U.S.C. 8929) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
        ``(3) Sunset.--The reporting requirement under paragraph (1) 
    shall be in effect so long as the INF Treaty remains in force.''.
SEC. 1236. REPORT ON TREATIES RELATING TO NUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL.
    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
        (1) On October 24, 2018, the House Committee on Armed Services 
    and House Committee on Foreign Affairs wrote to the Secretary of 
    Defense requesting information regarding the Administration's 
    policies and strategies related to nuclear arms control.
        (2) The Committees did not receive the requested information 
    from the Secretary of Defense.
    (b) Assessment Required.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
with the Secretary of State and the Director of National Intelligence, 
shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services, the Permanent Select 
Committee on Intelligence, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on Armed Services, the 
Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Committee on Foreign 
Relations of the Senate an assessment that includes each of the 
following:
        (1) The implications, in terms of military threat to the United 
    States or its allies in Europe, of Russian deployment of 
    intermediate-range cruise and ballistic missiles without 
    restriction.
        (2) What new capabilities the United States might need in order 
    to pursue additional technologies or programs to offset such 
    Russian capabilities, and the costs associated with such 
    capabilities, technologies, and programs.
        (3) An assessment of the threat to the United States of 
    Russia's strategic nuclear force in the event the New START Treaty 
    lapses.
        (4) What measures could have been taken short of withdrawal, 
    including economic, military, and diplomatic options, to increase 
    pressure on Russia for violating the INF Treaty.
        (5) The status of all consultations with allies pertaining to 
    the INF Treaty and the threat posed by Russian forces that are 
    noncompliant with the obligations of such treaty.
        (6) The impact that Russian withdrawal from the INF Treaty and 
    the expiration of the New START Treaty could have on long-term 
    United States-Russia strategic stability.
    (c) Withholding of Funds.--Until the date of the submission of the 
assessment required by subsection (b), an amount that is equal to 20 
percent of the total amount authorized to be appropriated to the Office 
of the Secretary of Defense under the Operations and Maintenance, 
Defense-Wide account for the travel of persons shall be withheld from 
obligation or expenditure.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) New start treaty.--The term ``New START Treaty'' means the 
    Treaty between the United States of America and the Russian 
    Federation on Measures for the Further Reduction and Limitation of 
    Strategic Offensive Arms, signed at Prague April 8, 2010, and 
    entered into force February 5, 2011.
        (2) Inf treaty.--The term ``INF Treaty'' means the Treaty 
    between the United States of America and the Union of Soviet 
    Socialist Republics on the Elimination of Their Intermediate-Range 
    and Shorter-Range Missiles, signed at Washington December 8, 1987, 
    and entered into force June 1, 1988.
SEC. 1237. REPORTS RELATING TO THE NEW START TREATY.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that legally 
binding, verifiable limits on Russian strategic nuclear forces are in 
the national security interest of the United States.
    (b) Prior Notification for Withdrawal.--Not later than 120 days 
before the provision to Russia, pursuant to Article XIV of the New 
Start Treaty, of notice of intent to withdraw the United States from 
the Treaty, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State shall 
jointly submit to the congressional defense committees, the Committee 
on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the Committee 
on Foreign Relations of the Senate a notification that includes a 
description of the extraordinary events jeopardizing the United States' 
supreme interests accompanying such notice of intent to withdraw in 
accordance with the requirements of such Article XIV.
    (c) Assessments From Director of National Intelligence.--
        (1) Relating to expiration of new start treaty.--Not later than 
    180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director 
    of National Intelligence shall submit to the appropriate 
    congressional committees an assessment of the implications of the 
    expiration of the New START Treaty without the United States and 
    Russia having entered into a new arms control agreement. The 
    assessment shall include the following elements:
            (A) An assessment of possible changes to the Russian 
        nuclear force structure through 2026, if the Treaty expires in 
        2021 without replacement, including Russia's ability and intent 
        to deploy strategic nuclear warheads and delivery vehicles 
        above the central limits of the Treaty and with respect to 
        possible future strategic nuclear weapons research and 
        development programs.
            (B) An assessment of the verification and transparency 
        benefits of the Treaty and a description of the Treaty's impact 
        on the United States' understanding of Russia's nuclear forces.
            (C) An assessment of what actions would be necessary for 
        the United States to remediate the loss of the Treaty's 
        verification and transparency benefits if the Treaty is not 
        extended and a new arms control agreement is not concluded, and 
        an estimate of the remedial resources required to ensure no 
        concomitant loss of understanding of Russia's nuclear forces as 
        practicable.
        (2) Relating to russia's willingness to engage in nuclear arms 
    control negotiations.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence 
    shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees an 
    assessment of Russia's willingness to engage in nuclear arms 
    control negotiations and Russia's priorities in these negotiations. 
    The assessment shall include the following elements:
            (A) An assessment of Russia's willingness to extend the New 
        START Treaty and its likely negotiating position to discuss 
        such an extension with the United States.
            (B) An assessment of Russia's interest in negotiating a 
        broader arms control agreement that would include nuclear 
        weapons systems not accountable under the New START Treaty, 
        including non-strategic nuclear weapons.
            (C) An assessment of what concessions Russia would likely 
        seek from the United States during such negotiations, including 
        what additional United States' military capabilities Russia 
        would seek to limit, in any broader arms control negotiation.
            (D) Any other matter the Director determines to be 
        relevant.
    (d) Reports and Briefing From Secretary of State.--
        (1) Relating to nato, nato member countries, and other united 
    states allies.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in consultation with 
    the Secretary of Defense, shall submit a report and provide a 
    briefing to the appropriate congressional committees that 
    includes--
            (A) an assessment of the likely reactions of the North 
        Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), NATO member countries, and 
        other United States allies and partners to the expiration of 
        the New START Treaty without the entry into force of a new 
        nuclear arms control agreement between the United States and 
        Russia; and
            (B) a description of the consultations undertaken with 
        allies relating to the Treaty.
        (2) Relating to ongoing implementation of the new start 
    treaty.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of 
    this Act, and again not later than September 1, 2020, the Secretary 
    of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall 
    submit a report to the appropriate congressional committees with an 
    assessment of the following elements:
            (A) Whether the Russian Federation remains in compliance 
        with its obligations under the New START Treaty.
            (B) Whether continuing implementation of the New START 
        Treaty remains in the national security interest of the United 
        States.
        (3) Relating to other matters.--Not later than 90 days after 
    the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days 
    thereafter until the New START Treaty is extended beyond February 
    2021 or expires, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the 
    Secretary of Defense, shall provide a briefing to the appropriate 
    congressional committees that includes the following elements:
            (A) A description of any discussions with Russia on the 
        Treaty or a multilateral arms control treaty with Russia and 
        other countries on the reduction and limitation of strategic 
        offensive arms, and discussions addressing the disparity 
        between the non-strategic nuclear weapons stockpiles of Russia 
        and of the United States, at the Assistant Secretary level, 
        Ambassadorial level, or higher.
            (B) The dates, locations, discussion topics, and Russian 
        interlocutors involved in those discussions.
            (C) An identification of the United States Government 
        departments and agencies involved in the discussions.
            (D) The types of systems, both nuclear and nonnuclear, 
        discussed by either side in such discussions as the potential 
        subjects of an agreement.
            (E) Whether formal negotiations to extend the Treaty or 
        negotiate a new agreement have occurred.
    (e) Report and Briefing From Secretary of Defense.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
    with the Secretary of Energy, shall submit a report to the 
    congressional defense committees that includes an assessment of the 
    manner and extent to which the United States nuclear force 
    structure could change if the New START Treaty expires in 2021, 
    including current and planned nuclear modernization programs, and 
    associated costs.
        (2) Additional report upon expiration.--Not later than April 5, 
    2021, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary 
    of Energy, shall, if the New START Treaty has expired prior to such 
    date, submit a plan describing the manner in which the United 
    States nuclear force structure will change, including current and 
    planned nuclear modernization programs and associated costs.
    (f) Form.--Each report, plan, or assessment required by this 
section shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
classified annex.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
        Armed Services, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
        Armed Services, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
        (2) New start treaty; treaty.--The terms ``New START Treaty'' 
    and ``Treaty'' mean the Treaty between the United States of America 
    and the Russian Federation on Measures for the Further Reduction 
    and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, signed on April 8, 
    2010, and entered into force on February 5, 2011.
SEC. 1238. REPORT ON MILITARY ACTIVITIES OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION AND 
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA IN THE ARCTIC REGION.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with 
the Secretary of State and the Director of National Intelligence, shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress the following:
        (1) A report on any military activities of the Russian 
    Federation in the Arctic region.
        (2) A report on any military activities of the People's 
    Republic of China in the Arctic region.
    (b) Matters to Be Included.--The reports under subsection (a) shall 
include, with respect to the Russian Federation or the People's 
Republic of China, as applicable, the following:
        (1) A description of military activities of such country in the 
    Arctic region, including--
            (A) the emplacement of military infrastructure, equipment, 
        or forces;
            (B) any exercises or other military activities; and
            (C) activities that are non-military in nature, but are 
        considered to have military or other strategic implications.
        (2) An assessment of--
            (A) the intentions of such activities;
            (B) the extent to which such activities affect or threaten 
        the interests of the United States and allies in the Arctic 
        region; and
            (C) any response to such activities by the United States or 
        allies.
        (3) A description of future plans and requirements with respect 
    to such activities.
    (c) Form.--Each report under subsection (a) shall be submitted in 
classified form, but may include an unclassified executive summary.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Relations, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Select 
    Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Permanent Select 
    Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1239. UPDATED STRATEGY TO COUNTER THE THREAT OF MALIGN INFLUENCE 
BY THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION AND OTHER COUNTRIES.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
State, in coordination with the appropriate United States Government 
officials, shall jointly update, with the additional elements described 
in subsection (b), the comprehensive strategy to counter the threat of 
malign influence developed pursuant to section 1239A of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 
Stat. 1667).
    (b) Additional Elements.--The updated strategy required under 
subsection (a) shall include the following:
        (1) With respect to each element specified in paragraphs (1) 
    through (7) of subsection (b) of such section 1239A, actions to 
    counter the threat of malign influence operations by the People's 
    Republic of China and any other country engaged in significant 
    malign influence operations.
        (2) A description of the interagency organizational structures 
    and procedures for coordinating the implementation of the 
    comprehensive strategy for countering malign influence by the 
    Russian Federation, China, and any other country engaged in 
    significant malign influence operations.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
State shall jointly submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
report detailing the updated strategy required under subsection (a).
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' has the meaning given 
the term in subsection (e) of such section 1239A.

            Subtitle E--Matters Relating to Europe and NATO

SEC. 1241. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON SUPPORT FOR THE NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY 
ORGANIZATION.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) is critical 
    to achieving United States national security interests and defense 
    objectives around the world;
        (2) NATO is the most successful military alliance in history, 
    founded on the principles of democracy, individual liberty, and the 
    rule of law, and its contributions to the collective defense are 
    indispensable to the security, prosperity, and freedom of its 
    members;
        (3) membership in NATO is a cornerstone of the security and 
    national defense of the United States;
        (4) the United States commitment to the NATO alliance has been 
    foundational to the rules-based international order for seven 
    decades, helping to sustain a system of mutual security and shared 
    values and enhance the United States security through common 
    defense;
        (5) the United States must remain ironclad in its commitment to 
    uphold its obligations under the North Atlantic Treaty, including 
    Article 5 of such Treaty;
        (6) the United States should deepen strategic and defense 
    cooperation with non-NATO European partners, and encourage NATO 
    cooperation with such partners;
        (7) the United States should encourage defense cooperation that 
    complements and strengthens NATO collective defense, 
    interoperability, and allies' commitment to Article 3 of the North 
    Atlantic Treaty; and
        (8) the United States should pursue a long-term policy to 
    strengthen relationships with NATO allies, oppose efforts to 
    undermine and divide the NATO alliance, invest in long-term efforts 
    to deter aggression against NATO allies and counter campaigns aimed 
    at eroding shared values of the alliance, and enhance 
    interoperability and planning for collective defense.
SEC. 1242. PROHIBITION ON THE USE OF FUNDS TO SUSPEND, TERMINATE, OR 
PROVIDE NOTICE OF DENUNCIATION OF THE NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds may be 
obligated, expended, or otherwise made available during the period 
beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act and ending on 
December 31, 2020, to take any action to suspend, terminate, or provide 
notice of denunciation of the North Atlantic Treaty, done at 
Washington, D.C. on April 4, 1949.
SEC. 1243. FUTURE YEARS PLANS AND PLANNING TRANSPARENCY FOR THE 
EUROPEAN DETERRENCE INITIATIVE.
    (a) Amendments.--Section 1273 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1696) is amended 
as follows:
        (1) In the section heading, by striking ``plan'' and inserting 
    ``plans''.
        (2) In subsection (a) to read as follows:
    ``(a) Initial Plan.--Not later than December 31, 2019, the 
Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Commander of the United 
States European Command, shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a future years plan on activities and resources of the 
European Deterrence Initiative (EDI) for fiscal year 2020 and not fewer 
than the four succeeding fiscal years.''.
        (3) Matters to be included.--In subsection (b)--
            (A) in paragraph (1) to read as follows:
        ``(1) A description of the objectives of the EDI, including a 
    description of--
            ``(A) the intended force structure and posture of the 
        assigned and allocated forces within the area of responsibility 
        of the United States European Command for the last fiscal year 
        of the plan; and
            ``(B) the manner in which such force structure and posture 
        support the implementation of the National Defense Strategy.'';
            (B) in paragraph (5), by striking ``required infrastructure 
        investments'' and inserting ``required infrastructure and 
        military construction investments''; and
            (C) in paragraph (8)--
                (i) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``and'' at the 
            end;
                (ii) in subparagraph (F), by striking the period at the 
            end and inserting a semicolon; and
                (iii) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(G) a detailed assessment of the resources necessary to 
        achieve the requirements of the plan, including specific cost 
        estimates for each project under the EDI to support increased 
        presence, exercises and training, enhanced prepositioning, 
        improved infrastructure, and building partnership capacity;
            ``(H) a detailed timeline to achieve the force posture and 
        capabilities, including permanent force posture requirements; 
        and
            ``(I) a detailed explanation of any significant 
        modifications to activities and resources as compared to the 
        future years plan on activities and resources of the EDI 
        submitted for the previous year.''.
        (4) By redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections (d) 
    and (e), respectively.
        (5) By inserting after subsection (b) the following:
    ``(c) Subsequent Plans.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not later than the date on which the 
    Secretary of Defense submits to Congress the budget request for the 
    Department of Defense for fiscal year 2021 and each fiscal year 
    thereafter, the Secretary, in consultation with the Commander of 
    the United States European Command, shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a future years plan on activities 
    and resources of the European Deterrence Initiative for such fiscal 
    year and not fewer than the four succeeding fiscal years.
        ``(2) Matters to be included.--The plan required under 
    paragraph (1) shall include--
            ``(A) the matters described in subsection (b); and
            ``(B) a detailed explanation of any significant 
        modifications in requirements or resources, as compared to the 
        plan submitted under such subsection (b).''.
        (6) In subsection (d), as redesignated, by striking ``The plan 
    required under subsection (a)'' and inserting ``The plans required 
    under subsections (a) and (c)''.
        (7) In subsection (e), as redesignated, by striking 
    ``Limitations'' and all that follows through ``In the case of'' and 
    inserting ``Limitations.--In the case of''.
    (b) Budget Display Information.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
include in the materials submitted to Congress by the Secretary in 
support of the budget of the President for fiscal year 2021 and each 
fiscal year thereafter (as submitted under section 1105 of title 31, 
United States Code), a detailed budget display for the European 
Deterrence Initiative that includes the following information 
(regardless of whether the funding line is for overseas contingency 
operations):
        (1) With respect to procurement accounts--
            (A) amounts displayed by account, budget activity, line 
        number, line item, and line item title; and
            (B) a description of the requirements for each such amounts 
        specific to the Initiative.
        (2) With respect to research, development, test, and evaluation 
    accounts--
            (A) amounts displayed by account, budget activity, line 
        number, program element, and program element title; and
            (B) a description of the requirements for each such amounts 
        specific to the Initiative.
        (3) With respect to operation and maintenance accounts--
            (A) amounts displayed by account title, budget activity 
        title, line number, and subactivity group title; and
            (B) a description of how such amounts will specifically be 
        used.
        (4) With respect to military personnel accounts--
            (A) amounts displayed by account, budget activity, budget 
        subactivity, and budget subactivity title; and
            (B) a description of the requirements for each such amounts 
        specific to the Initiative.
        (5) With respect to each project under military construction 
    accounts (including with respect to unspecified minor military 
    construction and amounts for planning and design), the country, 
    location, project title, and project amount by fiscal year.
    (c) End of Fiscal Year Report.--Not later than November 30, 2020, 
and annually thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report that contains--
        (1) a detailed summary of funds obligated for the European 
    Deterrence Initiative for the preceding fiscal year; and
        (2) a detailed comparison of funds obligated for the European 
    Deterrence Initiative for the preceding fiscal year to amounts 
    requested for the Initiative for that fiscal year in the materials 
    submitted to Congress by the Secretary in support of the budget of 
    the President for that fiscal year as required by subsection (c), 
    including with respect to each of the accounts described in 
    paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), and (5) of subsection (b) and the 
    information required under each such paragraph.
    (d) Interim Briefing.--Not later than March 30, 2021, and annually 
thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall provide the congressional 
defense committees with an interim briefing on the status of all 
matters covered by the end of fiscal year report required by section 
(c).
SEC. 1244. MODIFICATION AND EXTENSION OF UKRAINE SECURITY ASSISTANCE 
INITIATIVE.
    Section 1250 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1068) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``in coordination with the 
    Secretary of State'' and inserting ``with the concurrence of the 
    Secretary of State'';
        (2) in subsection (b)--
            (A) by amending paragraph (11) to read as follows:
        ``(11) Air defense and coastal defense radars, and systems to 
    support effective command and control and integration of air 
    defense and coastal defense capabilities.'';
            (B) by redesignating paragraphs (14) and (15) as paragraphs 
        (15) and (16), respectively;
            (C) by inserting after paragraph (13) the following:
        ``(14) Coastal defense and anti-ship missile systems.''; and
            (D) in paragraph (15), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``paragraphs (1) through (13)'' and inserting ``paragraphs (1) 
        through (14)'';
        (3) in subsection (c)--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``50 percent of the funds 
        available for fiscal year 2019 pursuant to subsection (f)(4)'' 
        and inserting ``50 percent of the funds available for fiscal 
        year 2020 pursuant to subsection (f)(5)'';
            (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``fiscal year 2019'' and 
        inserting ``fiscal year 2020''; and
            (C) in paragraph (5), by striking ``Of the funds available 
        for fiscal year 2019 pursuant to subsection (f)(4)'' and 
        inserting ``Of the funds available for fiscal year 2020 
        pursuant to subsection (f)(5)'';
        (4) in subsection (f), by adding at the end the following:
        ``(5) For fiscal year 2020, $300,000,000.''; and
        (5) in subsection (h), by striking ``December 31, 2021'' and 
    inserting ``December 31, 2022''.
SEC. 1245. LIMITATION ON TRANSFER OF F-35 AIRCRAFT TO TURKEY.
    (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated or 
otherwise made available for the Department of Defense may be used to 
do the following, and the Department may not otherwise do the 
following:
        (1) Transfer, facilitate the transfer, or authorize the 
    transfer of, any F-35 aircraft or related support equipment or 
    parts to Turkey.
        (2) Transfer intellectual property, technical data, or material 
    support necessary for, or related to, any maintenance or support of 
    the F-35 aircraft necessary to establish Turkey's indigenous F-35 
    capability.
        (3) Construct a storage facility for, or otherwise facilitate 
    the storage in Turkey of, any F-35 aircraft transferred to Turkey.
    (b) Waiver.--
        (1) Certification.--The Secretary of Defense, jointly with the 
    Secretary of State, may waive the limitation under subsection (a) 
    only if the Secretaries submit to the appropriate committees of 
    Congress a written certification that contains a determination by 
    the Secretaries, and any relevant documentation on which the 
    determination is based, that the Government of Turkey, having 
    previously accepted delivery of the S-400 air and missile defense 
    system from the Russian Federation--
            (A) no longer possesses the S-400 air and missile defense 
        system or any other equipment, materials, or personnel 
        associated with such system;
            (B) has provided credible assurances that the Government of 
        Turkey will not in the future accept delivery of such system; 
        and
            (C) has not, since July 31, 2019, purchased or accepted 
        delivery of defense equipment from the Russian Federation in 
        addition to the S-400 air and missile defense system that would 
        increase the risk of compromising the capabilities of the F-35 
        aircraft and its associated systems.
        (2) Notice and wait requirement.--The Secretary of Defense and 
    the Secretary of State may not waive the limitation under 
    subsection (a) until 90 days after the date on which the 
    Secretaries submit the certification under paragraph (1).
    (c) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) Turkey's possession of the S-400 air and missile defense 
    system adversely affects the national security of Turkey, the 
    United States, and all members of the North Atlantic Treaty 
    Alliance;
        (2) the United States offer of the Patriot air and missile 
    defense system to Turkey constituted a viable alternative to 
    Turkey's acquisition of the S-400 air and missile defense system;
        (3) acceptance of the S-400 air and missible defense system by 
    Turkey constitutes a significant transaction within the meaning of 
    section 231(a) of the Countering Russian Influence in Europe and 
    Eurasia Act of 2017 (22 U.S.C. 9525(a)); and
        (4) the President should implement the Countering Russian 
    Influence in Europe and Eurasia Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-44; 131 
    Stat. 886) by imposing and applying sanctions under section 235 of 
    that Act (22 U.S.C. 9529) with respect to any individual or entity 
    determined to have engaged in such significant transaction as if 
    such person were a sanctioned person for purposes of such section.
    (d) Authorization of Expenditure.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense is authorized--
            (A) to fly up to 6 Turkish F-35 aircraft (tail numbers AT-1 
        thru AT-6) to a storage location in the United States; and
            (B) to induct these aircraft into a long-term storage 
        condition.
        (2) Storage, plan, and disposition of aircraft and equipment.--
    The Secretary of Defense may expend up to $30,000,000 of funds 
    authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 for the 
    Department of Defense to conduct activities associated with 
    storage, preservation, and developing a plan for the final 
    disposition of such F-35 aircraft and Turkish F-35 aircraft 
    equipment, including full mission simulators, helmet mounted 
    display systems, air system maintenance trainer, and ancillary 
    mission equipment, as a result of efforts taken by the United 
    States to limit, reduce, or terminate Turkey's status as a member 
    of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter cooperative program.
        (3) Report required.--Not later than 90 days after the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide to 
    the congressional defense committees a report outlining the long-
    term plan for the disposition of such assets, including options for 
    recovery of costs from Turkey and for unilateral use of such assets 
    by the Department of Defense.
        (4) Notification required.--Not later than 15 days before any 
    expenditure of funds in an amount of $15,000,000 or more pursuant 
    to the authority described in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
    provide to the congressional defense committees a written 
    notification describing the activities to be conducted.
    (e) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees; and
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
    Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1246. BALTIC DEFENSE ASSESSMENT; EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF 
SECURITY ASSISTANCE FOR BALTIC COUNTRIES FOR JOINT PROGRAM FOR 
INTEROPERABILITY AND DETERRENCE AGAINST AGGRESSION.
    (a) Baltic Defense Assessment.--Not later than 1 year after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the 
Secretary of State shall jointly conduct a comprehensive, multilateral 
assessment of the military requirements of Lithuania, Latvia, and 
Estonia to deter and resist aggression by Russia that--
        (1) provides an assessment of past and current initiatives to 
    improve the efficiency, effectiveness, readiness and 
    interoperability of Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia's national 
    defense capabilities; and
        (2) assesses the manner in which to achieve such improvements, 
    including future resource requirements and recommendations, by 
    undertaking activities in the following areas:
            (A) Activities to increase the rotational and forward 
        presence, improve the capabilities, and enhance the posture and 
        response readiness of the United States or NATO forces in the 
        Baltic region.
            (B) Activities to improve air defense systems, including 
        modern air-surveillance capabilities.
            (C) Activities to improve counter-unmanned aerial system 
        capabilities.
            (D) Activities to improve command and control capabilities 
        through increasing communications, technology, and intelligence 
        capacity and coordination, including secure and hardened 
        communications.
            (E) Activities to improve intelligence, surveillance, and 
        reconnaissance capabilities.
            (F) Activities to enhance maritime domain awareness.
            (G) Activities to improve military and defense 
        infrastructure, logistics, and access, particularly transport 
        of military supplies and equipment.
            (H) Investments to ammunition stocks and storage.
            (I) Activities and training to enhance cyber security and 
        electronic warfare capabilities.
            (J) Bilateral and multilateral training and exercises.
            (K) New and existing cost-sharing mechanisms with United 
        States and NATO allies to reduce financial burden.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State 
jointly shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
report, which shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a 
classified annex, that includes each of the following:
        (1) A report on the findings of the assessment conducted 
    pursuant to subsection (a).
        (2) A list of any recommendations resulting from such 
    assessment.
        (3) An assessment of the resource requirements to achieve the 
    objectives described in subsection (a)(1) with respect to the 
    national defense capability of Baltic countries, including 
    potential investments by host countries.
        (4) A plan for the United States to use appropriate security 
    cooperation authorities or other authorities to--
            (A) facilitate relevant recommendations included in the 
        list described in paragraph (2);
            (B) expand joint training between the Armed Forces and the 
        military of Lithuania, Latvia, or Estonia, including with the 
        participation of other NATO allies; and
            (C) support United States foreign military sales and other 
        equipment transfers to Baltic countries, especially for the 
        activities described in subparagraphs (A) through (I) of 
        subsection (a)(2).
        (5) A comprehensive list of authorities and funding sources 
    used for security cooperation with the Baltic countries, 
    including--
            (A) a description of the funds made available and used to 
        provide assistance through each authority, if any, during the 
        last two years;
            (B) whether the authority to provide assistance pursuant to 
        section 1279D of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2018 (22 U.S.C. 2753 note) was used, and whether 
        any alternative authorities exist under which the Secretary can 
        provide such assistance; and
            (C) a determination whether any new authorities or funds 
        are needed to achieve the objectives described in subsection 
        (a)(1).
    (c) Modification of Security Assistance Authorities.--Subsection 
(c) of section 1279D of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2018 (22 U.S.C. 2753 note) is amended by inserting after 
paragraph (4) the following:
        ``(5) Command, control, communications, computers, 
    intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (C4ISR) 
    equipment.''.
    (d) Funding.--Subsection (f) of such section 1279D is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``$100,000,000'' and 
    inserting ``$125,000,000''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) Matching amount.--The amount of assistance provided under 
    subsection (a) for procurement described in subsection (b) may not 
    exceed the aggregate amount contributed to such procurement by the 
    Baltic nations.''.
    (e) Extension.--Subsection (g) of such section 1279D is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2020'' and inserting ``December 31, 2021''.
    (f) Appropriate Congressional Committees.--In this section, the 
term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Relations, the Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Committee 
    on Appropriations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Affairs, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and the 
    Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1247. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR AND REPORT ON TRAINING FOR 
EASTERN EUROPEAN NATIONAL SECURITY FORCES IN THE COURSE OF MULTILATERAL 
EXERCISES.
    (a) Extension.--Subsection (h) of section 1251 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (10 U.S.C. 333 note) is 
amended--
        (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``December 31, 2020'' 
    and inserting ``December 31, 2021''; and
        (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``for for the period 
    beginning on October 1, 2015, and ending on December 31, 2020'' and 
    inserting ``for the period beginning on October 1, 2015, and ending 
    on December 31, 2021''.
    (b) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
    with the Commander of United States European Command, shall submit 
    to the congressional defense committees a report on the authority 
    for training Eastern European national security forces in the 
    course of multilateral exercises under the authority of such 
    section.
        (2) Matters to be included.--The report required by paragraph 
    (1) shall include the following:
            (A) For each recipient country, a description of--
                (i) the training provided pursuant to such authority 
            beginning in fiscal year 2016; and
                (ii) payments of incremental expenses incurred by the 
            country as the direct result of such training.
            (B) A description of the elements of the U.S. European 
        Command theater campaign plan advanced by such authority.
            (C) An assessment whether the training and payment of the 
        incremental expenses incurred by each recipient country as the 
        direct result of participation in such training could be 
        provided pursuant to other training or security cooperation 
        authorities of the Department of Defense.
            (D) Any recommendations of the Secretary of Defense 
        regarding such authority.
            (E) Any other matter the Secretary of Defense considers 
        appropriate.
SEC. 1248. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF NATO SPECIAL OPERATIONS 
HEADQUARTERS.
    (a) Authorization.--Subsection (a) of section 1244 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 
Stat. 2541) is amended by striking ``2020'' and inserting ``2024''.
    (b) Repeal of Certification; Limitation.--Such section is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (c); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(c) Limitation.--Of the amounts made available under subsection 
(a) for fiscal year 2020, not more than 90 percent of such amounts may 
be obligated or expended until the Secretary of Defense, acting through 
the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low 
Intensity Conflict, submits to the congressional defense committees a 
report on the decision to realign responsibilities for overseeing and 
supporting NSHQ from U.S. Special Operations Command to U.S. European 
Command, including--
        ``(1) a justification and description of the impact of such 
    realignment; and
        ``(2) a description of how such realignment will strengthen the 
    role of the NSHQ in fostering special operations capabilities 
    within NATO.''.
    (c) Annual Report.--Such section, as so amended, is further amended 
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Annual Report.--Not later than March 1 of each year until 
2024, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate 
and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a 
report regarding support for the NSHQ. Each report shall include the 
following:
        ``(1) The total amount of funding provided by the United States 
    and other NATO nations to the NSHQ for operating costs of the NSHQ.
        ``(2) A description of the activities carried out with such 
    funding, including--
            ``(A) the amount of funding allocated for each such 
        activity;
            ``(B) the extent to which other NATO nations participate in 
        each such activity;
            ``(C) the extent to which each such activity is carried out 
        in coordination or cooperation with the Joint Special 
        Operations University;
            ``(D) the extent to which each such activity is carried out 
        in relation to other security cooperation activities, 
        exercises, or operations of the Department of Defense;
            ``(E) the extent to which each such activity is designed to 
        meet the purposes set forth in paragraphs (1) through (5) of 
        subsection (b); and
            ``(F) an assessment of the extent to which each such 
        activity will promote the mission of the NSHQ.
        ``(3) Other contributions, financial or in kind, provided by 
    the United States and other NATO nations in support of the NSHQ.
        ``(4) Any other matters that the Secretary of Defense considers 
    appropriate.''.
SEC. 1249. NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION JOINT FORCE COMMAND.
    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 138 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2350n North Atlantic Treaty Organization Joint Force Command
    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary of Defense shall authorize the 
establishment of, and the participation by members of the armed forces 
in, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Joint Force Command (in this 
section referred to as the `Joint Force Command'), to be established in 
the United States.
    ``(b) Use of Department of Defense Facilities and Equipment.--The 
Secretary may use facilities and equipment of the Department of Defense 
to support the Joint Force Command.
    ``(c) Availability of Funds.--Amounts authorized to be appropriated 
to the Department of Defense shall be available to carry out the 
purposes of this section.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
of subchapter II of chapter 138 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``2350n. North Atlantic Treaty Organization Joint Force Command.''.
SEC. 1250. REPORT ON NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION READINESS 
INITIATIVE.
    (a) Report.--Not later than October 1, 2020, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
on the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Readiness Initiative, 
which shall include assessments of the following:
        (1) The number of units North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
    allies have pledged against the benchmark to provide an additional 
    30 air attack squadrons, 30 naval combat vessels, and 30 mechanized 
    battalions ready to fight in not more than 30 days.
        (2) The procedure by which the North Atlantic Treaty 
    Organization certifies, reports, and ensures that the Supreme 
    Allied Commander Europe (SACEUR) maintains a detailed understanding 
    of the readiness of the forces described in paragraph (1).
        (3) The North Atlantic Treaty Organization plan to maintain the 
    readiness of such forces in future years.
    (b) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 1250A. REPEAL OF PROHIBITION ON TRANSFER OF ARTICLES ON THE UNITED 
STATES MUNITIONS LIST TO THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) allowing for the export, re-export or transfer of arms 
    subject to the United States Munitions List (part 121 of title 22, 
    Code of Federal Regulations) to the Republic of Cyprus would 
    advance United States security interests in Europe by helping to 
    reduce the dependence of the Government of the Republic of Cyprus 
    on other countries, including countries that pose challenges to 
    United States interests around the world, for defense-related 
    materiel; and
        (2) it is in the interest of the United States to continue to 
    support United Nations-facilitated efforts toward a comprehensive 
    solution to the division of Cyprus.
    (b) Modification of Prohibition.--Section 620C(e) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2373(e)) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Any agreement'' and 
    inserting ``Except as provided in paragraph (3), any agreement''; 
    and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) The requirement under paragraph (1) shall not apply to any 
sale or other provision of any defense article or defense service to 
Cyprus if the end-user of such defense article or defense service is 
the Government of the Republic of Cyprus.''.
    (c) Exclusion of the Government of the Republic of Cyprus From 
Certain Related Regulations.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to subsection (d) and except as 
    provided in paragraph (2), beginning on the date of the enactment 
    of this Act, the Secretary of State shall not apply a policy of 
    denial for exports, re-exports, or transfers of defense articles 
    and defense services destined for or originating in the Republic of 
    Cyprus if--
            (A) the request is made by or on behalf of the Government 
        of the Republic of Cyprus; and
            (B) the end-user of such defense articles or defense 
        services is the Government of the Republic of Cyprus.
        (2) Exception.--This exclusion shall not apply to any denial 
    based upon credible human rights concerns.
    (d) Limitations on the Transfer of Articles on the United States 
Munitions List to the Republic of Cyprus.--
        (1) In general.--The policy of denial for exports, re-exports, 
    or transfers of defense articles on the United States Munitions 
    List to the Republic of Cyprus shall remain in place unless the 
    President determines and certifies to the appropriate congressional 
    committees not less than annually that--
            (A) the Government of the Republic of Cyprus is continuing 
        to cooperate with the United States Government in efforts to 
        implement reforms on anti-money laundering regulations and 
        financial regulatory oversight; and
            (B) the Government of the Republic of Cyprus has made and 
        is continuing to take the steps necessary to deny Russian 
        military vessels access to ports for refueling and servicing.
        (2) Waiver.--The President may waive the limitations contained 
    in this subsection for one fiscal year if the President determines 
    that it is essential to the national security interests of the 
    United States to do so.
        (3) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
    section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
        Armed Services of the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on 
        Armed Services of the House of Representatives.

        Subtitle F--Matters Relating to the Indo-Pacific Region

SEC. 1251. MODIFICATION OF INDO-PACIFIC MARITIME SECURITY INITIATIVE.
    (a) Types of Assistance and Training.--Subsection (c)(2)(A) of 
section 1263 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2016 (10 U.S.C. 2282 note) is amended by inserting ``the law of armed 
conflict, the rule of law, and'' after ``respect for''.
    (b) Notice to Congress on Assistance and Training.--Subsection 
(g)(1) of such section is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (A), by inserting at the end before the 
    period the following: ``, the specific unit or units whose capacity 
    to engage in activities under a program of assistance or training 
    to be provided under subsection (a) will be built under the 
    program, and the amount, type, and purpose of the support to be 
    provided'';
        (2) by redesignating subparagraph (F) as subparagraph (J); and
        (3) by inserting after subparagraph (E) the following new 
    subparagraphs:
            ``(F) Information, including the amount, type, and purpose, 
        on assistance and training provided under subsection (a) during 
        the three preceding fiscal years, if applicable.
            ``(G) A description of the elements of the theater campaign 
        plan of the geographic combatant command concerned and the 
        interagency integrated country strategy that will be advanced 
        by the assistance and training provided under subsection (a).
            ``(H) A description of whether assistance and training 
        provided under subsection (a) could be provided pursuant to--
                ``(i) section 333 of title 10, United States Code, or 
            other security cooperation authorities of the Department of 
            Defense; or
                ``(ii) security cooperation authorities of the 
            Department of State.
            ``(I) An identification of each such authority described in 
        subparagraph (H).''.
    (c) Annual Monitoring Reports.--Such section is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (j); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (g) the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(h) Annual Monitoring Reports.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2020, and annually 
    thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    appropriate committees of Congress a report setting forth, for the 
    preceding calendar year, the following:
            ``(A) An assessment, by recipient foreign country, of--
                ``(i) the country's capabilities relating to maritime 
            security and maritime domain awareness;
                ``(ii) the country's capability enhancement priorities, 
            including how such priorities relate to the theater 
            campaign strategy, country plan, and theater campaign plan 
            relating to maritime security and maritime domain 
            awareness;
            ``(B) A discussion, by recipient foreign country, of--
                ``(i) priority capabilities that the Department of 
            Defense plans to enhance under the authority under 
            subsection (a) and priority capabilities the Department 
            plans to enhance under separate United States security 
            cooperation and security assistance authorities; and
                ``(ii) the anticipated timeline for assistance and 
            training for each such capability.
            ``(C) Information, by recipient foreign country, on the 
        status of funds allocated for assistance and training provided 
        under subsection (a), including funds allocated but not yet 
        obligated or expended.
            ``(D) Information, by recipient foreign country, on the 
        delivery and use of assistance and training provided under 
        subsection (a).
            ``(E) Information, by recipient foreign country, on the 
        timeliness of the provision of assistance and training under 
        subsection (a) as compared to the timeliness of the provision 
        of assistance and training previously provided to the foreign 
        country under subsection (a).
            ``(F) A description of the reasons the Department of 
        Defense chose to utilize the authority for assistance and 
        training under subsection (a) in the preceding calendar year.
            ``(G) An explanation of any impediments to timely 
        obligation or expenditure of funds allocated for assistance and 
        training under subsection (a) or any significant delay in the 
        delivery of such assistance and training.
        ``(2) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
    subsection, the term `appropriate committees of Congress' has the 
    meaning given the term in subsection (g)(2).''.
    (d) Limitation.--Such section, as so amended, is further amended by 
inserting after subsection (h), as added by subsection (c)(2), the 
following:
    ``(i) Limitation.--The provision of assistance and training 
pursuant to a program under subsection (a) shall be subject to the 
provisions of section 383 of title 10, United States Code.''.
SEC. 1252. EXPANSION OF INDO-PACIFIC MARITIME SECURITY INITIATIVE AND 
LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS.
    (a) Expansion of Recipient Countries.--Subsection (b) of section 
1263 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (10 
U.S.C. 333 note) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraphs:
        ``(8) The Federated States of Micronesia.
        ``(9) The Independent State of Samoa.
        ``(10) The Kingdom of Tonga.
        ``(11) Papua New Guinea.
        ``(12) The Republic of Fiji.
        ``(13) The Republic of Kiribati.
        ``(14) The Republic of the Marshall Islands.
        ``(15) The Republic of Nauru.
        ``(16) The Republic of Palau.
        ``(17) The Republic of Vanuatu.
        ``(18) The Solomon Islands.
        ``(19) Tuvalu.''.
    (b) Limitation on Use of Funds.--
        (1) In general.--None of the funds authorized to be 
    appropriated for the Indo-Pacific Maritime Security Initiative 
    under such section may be obligated or expended to provide training 
    or assistance to a recipient country described in any of paragraphs 
    (8) through (19) of subsection (b) of such section until the date 
    on which the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the 
    Secretary of State, submits to the appropriate committees of 
    Congress a report on security cooperation with and security 
    assistance to such countries.
        (2) Report.--The report referred to in paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) An identification of elements of the theater campaign 
        plan of the geographic combatant command concerned and the 
        interagency integrated country strategy that will be advanced 
        by expansion of security cooperation and assistance programs 
        and activities to such recipient countries.
            (B) An assessment of the capabilities, and a description of 
        the capability enhancement priorities, of each such country.
            (C) A description of the manner in which United States 
        security cooperation and assistance authorities, including 
        assistance provided pursuant to other security cooperation 
        authorities of the Department of Defense or security assistance 
        authorities of the Department of State, may be used to enhance 
        the priority capabilities of each such country.
            (D) A description, as appropriate, of the manner in which 
        the Secretary of Defense, together with the Secretary of State, 
        shall ensure that security cooperation with and security 
        assistance to such countries complement regional engagement 
        efforts undertaken by United States allies, including the 
        Pacific Step-Up efforts of the Government of Australia and the 
        ``Pacific Reset'' efforts of the Government of New Zealand.
            (E) A description of absorption capacity and sustainability 
        issues for each such country and a plan to resolve such issues.
            (F) An identification of the estimated annual cost for such 
        assistance and training for fiscal years 2020 through 2025.
    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees;
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Subcommittee on 
    State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs of the Committee on 
    Appropriations of the Senate; and
        (3) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Subcommittee on 
    State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs of the Committee on 
    Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1253. REPORT ON RESOURCING UNITED STATES DEFENSE REQUIREMENTS FOR 
THE INDO-PACIFIC REGION AND STUDY ON COMPETITIVE STRATEGIES.
    (a) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than March 15, 2020, the Commander 
    of United States Indo-Pacific Command shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report containing the 
    independent assessment of the Commander with respect to the 
    activities and resources required, for fiscal years 2022 through 
    2026, to achieve the following objectives:
            (A) The implementation of the National Defense Strategy 
        with respect to the Indo-Pacific region.
            (B) The maintenance or restoration of the comparative 
        military advantage of the United States with respect to the 
        People's Republic of China.
            (C) The reduction of the risk of executing contingency 
        plans of the Department of Defense.
        (2) Matters to be included.--The report required under 
    paragraph (1) shall include the following:
            (A) A description of the intended force structure and 
        posture of assigned and allocated forces within the area of 
        responsibility of United States Indo-Pacific Command for fiscal 
        year 2026 to achieve the objectives described in paragraph (1).
            (B) An assessment of capabilities requirements to achieve 
        such objectives.
            (C) An assessment of logistics requirements, including 
        personnel, equipment, supplies, storage, and maintenance needs 
        to achieve such objectives.
            (D) An identification of required infrastructure and 
        military construction investments to achieve such objectives.
            (E) An assessment of security cooperation activities or 
        resources required to achieve such objectives.
            (F)(i) A plan to fully resource United States force posture 
        and capabilities, including--
                (I) a detailed assessment of the resources necessary to 
            address the elements described in subparagraphs (A) through 
            (E), including specific cost estimates for recommended 
            investments or projects--

                    (aa) to increase joint force lethality;
                    (bb) to enhance force design and posture;
                    (cc) to support a robust exercise, experimentation, 
                and innovation program; and
                    (dd) to strengthen cooperation with allies and 
                partners; and

                (II) a detailed timeline to achieve the intended force 
            structure and posture described in subparagraph (A).
            (ii) The specific cost estimates required by clause (i)(I) 
        shall, to the maximum extent practicable, include the 
        following:
                (I) With respect to procurement accounts--

                    (aa) amounts displayed by account, budget activity, 
                line number, line item, and line item title; and
                    (bb) a description of the requirements for each 
                such amount.

                (II) With respect to research, development, test, and 
            evaluation accounts--

                    (aa) amounts displayed by account, budget activity, 
                line number, program element, and program element 
                title; and
                    (bb) a description of the requirements for each 
                such amount.

                (III) With respect to operation and maintenance 
            accounts--

                    (aa) amounts displayed by account title, budget 
                activity title, line number, and subactivity group 
                title; and
                    (bb) a description of the specific manner in which 
                each such amount would be used.

                (IV) With respect to military personnel accounts--

                    (aa) amounts displayed by account, budget activity, 
                budget subactivity, and budget subactivity title; and
                    (bb) a description of the requirements for each 
                such amount.

                (V) With respect to each project under military 
            construction accounts (including unspecified minor military 
            construction and amounts for planning and design), the 
            country, location, project title, and project amount for 
            each fiscal year.
                (VI) With respect to any expenditure or proposed 
            appropriation not described in subclause (I) through (V), a 
            level of detail equivalent or greater than the level of 
            detail provided in the future-years defense program 
            submitted pursuant to section 221(a) of title 10, United 
            States Code.
        (3) Form.--The report required under paragraph (1) may be 
    submitted in classified form, but shall include an unclassified 
    summary.
        (4) Availability.--Not later than March 15, 2020, the Commander 
    of United States Indo-Pacific Command shall make the report 
    available to the Secretary of Defense, the Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Policy, the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), 
    the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, the 
    Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Secretaries of the 
    military departments, and the chiefs of staff of each military 
    service.
    (b) Briefings Required.--
        (1) Initial briefing.--Not later than April 15, 2020, the 
    Secretary of Defense (acting through the Under Secretary of Defense 
    for Policy, the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), and the 
    Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation) and the 
    Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall provide to the 
    congressional defense committees a joint briefing, and any written 
    comments the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint 
    Chiefs of Staff consider necessary, with respect to their 
    assessments of the report submitted under subsection (a), including 
    their assessments of the feasibility and advisability of the plan 
    required by paragraph (2)(F) of that subsection.
        (2) Subsequent briefing.--Not later than April 30, 2020, the 
    Secretary of the Air Force, the Secretary of the Army, and the 
    Secretary of the Navy shall provide to the congressional defense 
    committees a joint briefing, and documents as appropriate, with 
    respect to their assessments of the report submitted under 
    subsection (a), including their assessments of the feasibility and 
    advisability of the plan required by paragraph (2)(F) of that 
    subsection.
    (c) Study on Competitive Strategies With Respect to the People's 
Republic of China.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through the 
    Director of the Office of Net Assessment, shall conduct a study on 
    not fewer than three possible long-term competitive strategies with 
    respect to the People's Republic of China that focuses on the 
    identification of opportunities to shape strategic competition to 
    the advantage of the United States.
        (2) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees the results of the study required 
    under paragraph (1).
SEC. 1254. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS TO REDUCE THE TOTAL NUMBER OF 
MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES SERVING ON ACTIVE DUTY WHO ARE DEPLOYED TO 
SOUTH KOREA.
    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act may be 
used to reduce the total number of members of the Armed Forces serving 
on active duty who are deployed to South Korea below 28,500 until 90 
days after the date on which the Secretary of Defense certifies to the 
congressional defense committees the following:
        (1) Such a reduction is in the national security interest of 
    the United States and will not significantly undermine the security 
    of United States allies in the region.
        (2) The Secretary has appropriately consulted with allies of 
    the United States, including South Korea and Japan, regarding such 
    a reduction.
SEC. 1255. REPORT ON DIRECT, INDIRECT, AND BURDEN-SHARING CONTRIBUTIONS 
OF JAPAN AND SOUTH KOREA.
    (a) In General.--Not later than the date agreed to in accordance 
with subsection (e)(2), the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on 
the direct, indirect, and burden-sharing contributions of Japan and 
South Korea to support overseas military installations of the United 
States and United States Armed Forces deployed to or permanently 
stationed in Japan and South Korea, respectively.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) The benefits to United States national security and 
    regional security derived from the forward presence of the Armed 
    Forces in the Indo-Pacific region, including Japan and South Korea.
        (2) For calendar year 2016 and each subsequent calendar year, 
    the overall cost for the presence of the Armed Forces in Japan and 
    South Korea and the breakdown of such costs between the United 
    States and the respective host nations.
        (3) For calendar year 2016 and each subsequent calendar year, a 
    description of the one-time and recurring costs associated with the 
    presence of the Armed Forces in Japan and South Korea, including--
            (A) costs to relocate the Armed Forces within Japan and 
        South Korea and to realign the Armed Forces from Japan and 
        South Korea;
            (B) military personnel costs;
            (C) operation and maintenance costs; and
            (D) military construction costs.
        (4) A description of direct, indirect, and burden-sharing 
    contributions of Japan and South Korea, including--
            (A) contributions for labor costs associated with the 
        presence of the Armed Forces;
            (B) contributions to military construction projects of the 
        Department of Defense, including planning, design, 
        environmental reviews, construction, construction management 
        costs, rents on privately-owned land, facilities, labor, 
        utilities, and vicinity improvements;
            (C) contributions such as loan guarantees on public-private 
        venture housing and payment-in-kind for facilities returned to 
        Japan and South Korea;
            (D) contributions accepted for labor, logistics, utilities, 
        facilities, and any other purpose; and
            (E) other contributions, such as Camp Humphreys and the 
        Futenma Replacement Facility, as determined appropriate by the 
        Comptroller General.
        (5) The methodology and accounting procedures used to measure 
    and track direct, indirect, and burden-sharing contributions made 
    by Japan and South Korea.
    (c) Description of Contributions in United States Dollars.--The 
report required by subsection (a) shall describe the direct, indirect, 
and burden-sharing contributions of Japan and South Korea in United 
States dollars and shall specify the exchange rates used to determine 
the United States dollar value of such contributions.
    (d) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form without any designation relating to dissemination 
control, but may contain a classified annex.
    (e) Briefing.--Not later than March 2, 2020, the Comptroller 
General shall provide to the appropriate congressional committees an 
interim briefing--
        (1) on the status of the report and initial findings; and
        (2) to agree on the date on which to submit the report required 
    by subsection (a).
    (f) Support From the Department of Defense.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall provide the Comptroller General with timely access to the 
appropriate information, data, and analyses necessary to fulfill the 
requirement under subsection (a) in a timely, thorough, and independent 
manner.
    (g) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees; and
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
    Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1256. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON SECURITY COMMITMENTS TO THE GOVERNMENTS 
OF JAPAN AND THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA AND TRILATERAL COOPERATION AMONG THE 
UNITED STATES, JAPAN, AND THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the United States remains committed to its alliances with 
    Japan and the Republic of Korea, which are--
            (A) essential to the peace and stability in the Indo-
        Pacific region; and
            (B) based on the shared values of democracy, the rule of 
        law, free and open markets, and respect for human rights;
        (2) cooperation among the United States, Japan, and the 
    Republic of Korea is essential for confronting regional and global 
    challenges, including--
            (A) preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass 
        destruction;
            (B) combating piracy;
            (C) assisting victims of conflict and disaster worldwide;
            (D) protecting maritime security; and
            (E) ensuring freedom of navigation, commerce, and 
        overflight in the Indo-Pacific region;
        (3) the United States, Japan, and the Republic of Korea share 
    deep concern that the nuclear and ballistic missile programs, the 
    conventional military capabilities, and the chemical and biological 
    weapons programs of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, 
    together with the long history of aggression and provocation by the 
    Democratic People's Republic of Korea, pose grave threats to peace 
    and stability on the Korean Peninsula and in the Indo-Pacific 
    region;
        (4) the United States views security cooperation between Japan 
    and the Republic of Korea as essential to maintaining peace and 
    stability in the Indo-Pacific region, promoting mutual interests, 
    and addressing shared concerns;
        (5) the bilateral military intelligence-sharing pact between 
    Japan and the Republic of Korea, signed on November 23, 2016, and 
    the trilateral intelligence sharing agreement among the United 
    States, Japan, and the Republic of Korea, signed on December 29, 
    2015, are critical to security in the Indo-Pacific region and 
    should be maintained; and
        (6) recognizing that the security of the United States, Japan, 
    and the Republic of Korea are intertwined by common threats, 
    including from the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the 
    United States strongly encourages--
            (A) strengthened bilateral security ties between Japan and 
        the Republic of Korea; and
            (B) deeper trilateral defense coordination and cooperation, 
        including through expanded exercises, training, senior-level 
        exchanges, and information sharing.
SEC. 1257. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON NORTH KOREA.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) diplomacy, economic sanctions, and credible deterrence are 
    essential to address North Korea's illicit weapons of mass 
    destruction program and the conventional threat that North Korea 
    poses to United States forces on the Korean Peninsula and to United 
    States allies in the region;
        (2) North Korea's recent missile tests are destabilizing, 
    increase regional tensions, and run counter to the spirit of 
    diplomatic negotiations;
        (3) every effort should be made to deter actions by North Korea 
    that could lead to a military confrontation, which would pose 
    extreme risks to--
            (A) United States military personnel;
            (B) noncombatants, including United States citizens and 
        citizens of United States allies; and
            (C) regional security;
        (4) a sustained and credible diplomatic process based on 
    concrete measures to achieve the denuclearization of North Korea 
    and an eventual end to the Korean War should be pursued;
        (5) continued actions by North Korea that run counter to 
    diplomatic negotiations call into question North Korea's intentions 
    and commitment to a diplomatic solution; and
        (6) until such time as North Korea no longer poses a threat to 
    the United States or United States allies, the United States 
    should, in concert with such allies, continue to deter North Korea 
    through credible defense and deterrence posture.
SEC. 1258. STATEMENT OF POLICY AND SENSE OF CONGRESS ON, AND STRATEGY 
TO FULFILL OBLIGATIONS UNDER, MUTUAL DEFENSE TREATY WITH THE REPUBLIC 
OF THE PHILIPPINES.
    (a) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United States 
that--
        (1) while the United States has long adopted an approach that 
    takes no position on the ultimate disposition of the disputed 
    sovereignty claims in the South China Sea, disputing states 
    should--
            (A) resolve their disputes peacefully without the threat or 
        use of force; and
            (B) ensure that their maritime claims are consistent with 
        international law; and
        (2) an armed attack on the armed forces, public vessels, or 
    aircraft of the Republic of the Philippines in the Pacific, 
    including the South China Sea, would trigger the mutual defense 
    obligations of the United States under Article IV of the Mutual 
    Defense Treaty ``to meet common dangers in accordance with its 
    constitutional processes''.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense should--
        (1) affirm the commitment of the United States to the Mutual 
    Defense Treaty;
        (2) preserve and strengthen the military alliance of the United 
    States with the Republic of the Philippines;
        (3) prioritize efforts to develop a shared understanding of 
    alliance commitments and defense planning; and
        (4) provide appropriate support to the Republic of the 
    Philippines to strengthen the self-defense capabilities of the 
    Republic of the Philippines, particularly in the maritime domain.
    (c) Strategy Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
    with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate 
    committees of Congress a report that sets forth the strategy of the 
    Department of Defense for achieving the objectives described in 
    subsection (b).
        (2) Elements of strategy.--The strategy required by paragraph 
    (1) shall include the following:
            (A) A description of the national security interests and 
        objectives of the United States furthered by the Mutual Defense 
        Treaty.
            (B) A description of the regional security environment, 
        including--
                (i) an assessment of threats to both the United States 
            and the Republic of the Philippines national security 
            interests in the region and the role of the Department in 
            addressing such threats;
                (ii) a description of the strategic security challenges 
            that are detrimental to regional peace and global 
            stability, including challenges posed by the People's 
            Republic of China, violent extremist organizations, and 
            natural disasters; and
                (iii) a description of each violent extremist 
            organization that presents a threat to the Republic of the 
            Philippines, including, with respect to each such 
            organization--

                    (I) the primary objectives of the organization;
                    (II) an assessment of--

                        (aa) the capacity and capability of the 
                    organization;
                        (bb) the transnational threat posed by the 
                    organization;
                        (cc) recent trends in the capability and 
                    influence of the organization;
                        (dd) the potential for the organization to 
                    reconstitute, expand, or otherwise pose a 
                    significant transnational threat; and
                        (ee) the conditions that contribute to efforts 
                    of the organization to reconstitute, expand, or 
                    pose such a threat; and

                    (III) a description of the metrics used to assess 
                the capability and influence of the organization.

            (C) A description of Department objectives with the 
        Republic of the Philippines, including--
                (i) the benchmarks for assessing progress towards such 
            objectives; and
                (ii) the Department strategy to achieve such 
            objectives, including through--

                    (I) defense cooperation;
                    (II) use of security cooperation authorities; and
                    (III) other support or activities in the Republic 
                of the Philippines.

            (D) An identification of all current and planned Department 
        resources, programs, and activities to support the strategy 
        required by paragraph (1), including a review of the necessity 
        of an ongoing named operation and the criteria used to 
        determine such necessity.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term ``appropriate 
    committees of Congress'' means--
            (A) the congressional defense committees; and
            (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
        the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives.
        (2) Mutual defense treaty.--The term ``Mutual Defense Treaty'' 
    means the Mutual Defense Treaty between the Republic of the 
    Philippines and the United States of America, done at Washington 
    August 30, 1951.
SEC. 1259. REPORT ON SECURITY COOPERATION WITH THE PHILIPPINE NATIONAL 
POLICE.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 150 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in concurrence with 
the Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees a report concerning security sector assistance programs with 
the Philippine National Police.
    (b) Matters to Be Included.--The report required by subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
        (1) A description of current and planned security sector 
    assistance programs with the Philippine National Police.
        (2) The purpose, objectives, and type of training, equipment, 
    or assistance provided under each such program or activity.
        (3) An identification of the lead agency responsible for each 
    such program or activity.
        (4) An identification of the authority or authorities under 
    which each such program or activity is conducted.
        (5) A description of the process and criteria used to determine 
    utilization of each such authority or authorities.
        (6) A description of how each such program or activity advances 
    United States national security interests as it relates to the 
    Department's strategy regarding the Philippines.
        (7) An identification of the specific units of the Philippine 
    National Police to receive training, equipment, or assistance under 
    each such program.
        (8) A description of the process and criteria by which specific 
    units of the Philippine National Police are selected as recipients 
    of such programs and activities, including an assessment of the 
    comparative value of working with units of law enforcement and 
    units of the military forces of the Philippines.
        (9) An assessment of the current operational effectiveness of 
    such units and a description of the metrics used to make such 
    assessment.
        (10) An identification of priority capabilities of such units 
    to enhance through training, equipment, or assistance under each 
    such program or activity.
        (11) A plan to identify, monitor, track, and assess the ability 
    of each such program or activity to meet each of the objectives 
    described pursuant to paragraph (2) to enhance the capabilities of 
    each such unit.
        (12) An identification of any units of the Philippine National 
    Police that are determined or credibly alleged to have committed 
    human rights abuses.
        (13) A description of the relationship between any units of the 
    Philippine National Police identified pursuant to paragraph (12) 
    and any unit identified pursuant to paragraph (7).
        (14) A description of the current or previous role, if any, of 
    each unit identified pursuant to paragraph (7) in the anti-drug 
    campaign.
        (15) An assessment of the ability of the United States to 
    identify the units described in paragraph (12).
        (16) Any other matters the Secretary of Defense determines 
    should be included.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form without any designation relating to dissemination 
control, but may contain a classified annex.
    (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees; and
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
    Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1260. MODIFICATION OF ANNUAL REPORT ON MILITARY AND SECURITY 
DEVELOPMENTS INVOLVING THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.
    (a) Modification to Annual Report Requirements.--Section 1202 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 (10 U.S.C. 
113 note) is amended as follows:
        (1) In subsection (a), by inserting ``, in consultation with 
    the heads of other Federal departments and agencies as 
    appropriate,'' after ``the Secretary of Defense''.
        (2) In subsection (b)--
            (A) by amending paragraph (26) to read as follows:
        ``(26) The relationship between Chinese overseas investment, 
    including the Belt and Road Initiative, the Digital Silk Road, and 
    any state-owned or controlled digital or physical infrastructure 
    projects of China, and Chinese security and military strategy 
    objectives, including--
            ``(A) an assessment of the Chinese investments or projects 
        likely, or with significant potential, to be converted into 
        military assets of China;
            ``(B) an assessment of the Chinese investments or projects 
        of greatest concern with respect to United States national 
        security interests;
            ``(C) a description of any Chinese investment or project 
        located in another country that is linked to military 
        cooperation with such country, such as cooperation on satellite 
        navigation or arms production;
            ``(D) an assessment of any Chinese investment, project, or 
        associated agreement in or with another country that presents 
        significant financial risk for the country or may undermine the 
        sovereignty of such country; and
            ``(E) an assessment of the implications for United States 
        military or governmental interests related to denial of access, 
        compromised intelligence activities, and network advantages of 
        Chinese investments or projects in other countries.''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(29) Developments relating to the China Coast Guard, 
    including an assessment of--
            ``(A) how the change in the Guard's command structure to 
        report to China's Central Military Commission affects the 
        Guard's status as a law enforcement entity;
            ``(B) the implications of such command structure with 
        respect to the use of the Guard as a coercive tool to conduct 
        `gray zone' activities in the East China Sea and the South 
        China Sea; and
            ``(C) how the change in such command structure may affect 
        interactions between the Guard and the United States Navy.
        ``(30) An assessment of the military-to-military relations 
    between China and Russia, including an identification of mutual and 
    competing interests.
        ``(31) An assessment of China's expansion of its surveillance 
    state, including--
            ``(A) any correlation of such expansion with its oppression 
        of its citizens or its threat to United States national 
        security interests around the world; and
            ``(B) an overview of the extent to which such surveillance 
        corresponds to an overall respect, or lack thereof, for human 
        rights in China, especially for religious and ethnic 
        minorities.''.
        (3) In subsection (c)--
            (A) by striking ``and the'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``, the'';
            (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``of the Senate.'' and 
        inserting ``, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        Senate.''; and
            (C) in paragraph (2), by striking ``Committee on 
        International Relations of the House of Representatives.'' and 
        inserting ``Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Permanent 
        Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
        Representatives.''
    (b) Additional Defined Term.--Such section 1202, as so amended, is 
further amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) State-owned or Controlled Digital or Physical Infrastructure 
Project of China.--
        ``(1) In general.--For purposes of subsection (b)(26), the term 
    `state-owned or controlled digital or physical infrastructure 
    project of China' means a transportation, energy, or information 
    technology infrastructure project that is--
            ``(A) owned, controlled, under the direct or indirect 
        influence of, or subsidized by--
                ``(i) the Government of the People's Republic of China, 
            including any agency within such Government and any 
            subdivision or other unit of government at any level of 
            jurisdiction within China;
                ``(ii) any agent or instrumentality of such Government, 
            including such agencies or subdivisions; or
                ``(iii) the Chinese Communist Party; or
            ``(B) a project of any Chinese company operating in a 
        sector identified as a strategic industry in the Chinese 
        Government's `Made in China 2025' strategy to make China a 
        `manufacturing power' as a core national interest.
        ``(2) Owned; controlled.--For purposes paragraph (1)(A), with 
    respect to a project--
            ``(A) the term `owned' means a majority or controlling 
        interest, whether by value or voting interest, in that project, 
        including through fiduciaries, agents, or other means; and
            ``(B) the term `controlled' means the power by any means to 
        determine or influence, directly or indirectly, important 
        matters affecting the project, regardless of the level of 
        ownership and whether or not that power is exercised.''.
SEC. 1260A. REPORT ON FOREIGN MILITARY ACTIVITIES IN PACIFIC ISLAND 
COUNTRIES.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence, 
in coordination with the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency 
and the Director of National Intelligence, shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report specifying and analyzing--
        (1) strategic interests of foreign militaries in Pacific Island 
    countries, known or emerging foreign partnerships or alliances with 
    non-Pacific Island countries, and foreign military training, 
    exercises, or operations in the region, excluding with countries 
    who are members of the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization;
        (2) gaps in intelligence collection capabilities and activities 
    that prevent or may prevent a comprehensive understanding of 
    current intelligence assessments for Pacific Island countries; and
        (3) plans to overcome any current intelligence collection 
    deficiencies, including an analysis of both United States and 
    allied and partner intelligence collection capabilities and 
    activities.
    (b) Pacific Island Country Defined.--In this section, the term 
``Pacific Island country'' includes any of the following countries: The 
Republic of Fiji, the Republic Kiribati, the Marshall Islands, the 
Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of Nauru, the Republic of 
Palau, the Independent State of Samoa, the Solomon Islands, the Kingdom 
of Tonga, Tuvalu, and the Republic of Vanuatu.
SEC. 1260B. REPORT ON CYBERSECURITY ACTIVITIES WITH TAIWAN.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on the following:
        (1) The feasibility of establishing a high-level, interagency 
    United States-Taiwan working group for coordinating responses to 
    emerging issues related to cybersecurity.
        (2) A discussion of the Department of Defense's current and 
    future plans to engage with Taiwan in cybersecurity activities.
        (3) A discussion of obstacles encountered in forming, 
    executing, or implementing agreements with Taiwan for cybersecurity 
    activities.
        (4) Any other matters the Secretary of Defense determines 
    should be included.
SEC. 1260C. REVIEW AND REPORT RELATED TO THE TAIWAN RELATIONS ACT.
    (a) Review.--The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
Secretary of State, shall conduct a review of--
        (1) whether, and the means by which, as applicable, the 
    Government of the People's Republic of China or the Chinese 
    Communist Party are affecting, including through military, 
    economic, information, digital, diplomatic, or any other form of 
    coercion--
            (A) the security, or the social and economic system, of the 
        people of Taiwan;
            (B) the military balance of power between the People's 
        Republic of China and Taiwan; or
            (C) the expectation that the future of Taiwan will continue 
        to be determined by peaceful means; and
        (2) the role of United States policy toward Taiwan with respect 
    to the implementation of the 2017 National Security Strategy and 
    the 2018 National Defense Strategy.
    (b) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination 
    with the Secretary of State, shall provide to the appropriate 
    committees of Congress a report on the review under subsection (a).
        (2) Matters to be included.--The report under paragraph (1) 
    shall include the following:
            (A) The assessments resulting from the review.
            (B) Recommendations on legislative changes or Department of 
        Defense or Department of State policy changes necessary to 
        ensure that the United States continues to meets its 
        obligations to Taiwan under the Taiwan Relations Act (22 U.S.C. 
        3301 et seq.).
            (C) Guidelines for--
                (i) new defense requirements, including requirements 
            relating to information and digital space;
                (ii) exchanges between senior-level civilian and 
            military officials of the United States and Taiwan; and
                (iii) the regular transfer of defense articles, 
            especially defense articles that are mobile, survivable, 
            and cost effective, to most effectively deter attacks and 
            support the asymmetric defense strategy of Taiwan.
    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1260D. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON ENHANCEMENT OF THE UNITED STATES-
TAIWAN DEFENSE RELATIONSHIP.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) Taiwan is a vital partner of the United States and is 
    critical to a free and open Indo-Pacific region;
        (2) the Taiwan Relations Act (22 U.S.C. 3301 et seq.) and the 
    ``Six Assurances'' are both cornerstones of United States relations 
    with Taiwan;
        (3) the United States should continue to strengthen defense and 
    security cooperation with Taiwan to support the development of 
    capable, ready, and modern defense forces necessary for Taiwan to 
    maintain a sufficient self-defense capability;
        (4) consistent with the Taiwan Relations Act (22 U.S.C. 3301 et 
    seq.), the United States should strongly support the acquisition by 
    Taiwan of defense articles and services through foreign military 
    sales, direct commercial sales, and industrial cooperation, with an 
    emphasis on anti-ship, coastal defense, anti-armor, air defense, 
    defensive naval mining, and resilient command and control 
    capabilities that support the asymmetric defense strategy of 
    Taiwan;
        (5) the President and Congress should determine the nature and 
    quantity of such defense articles and services based solely upon 
    their judgment of the needs of Taiwan, as required by the Taiwan 
    Relations Act and in accordance with procedures established by law;
        (6) the United States should continue efforts to improve the 
    predictability of United States arms sales to Taiwan by ensuring 
    timely review of and response to requests of Taiwan for defense 
    articles and services;
        (7) the Secretary of Defense should promote policies concerning 
    exchanges that enhance the security of Taiwan, including--
            (A) opportunities with Taiwan for practical training and 
        military exercises that--
                (i) enable Taiwan to maintain a sufficient self-defense 
            capability, as described in section 3(a) of the Taiwan 
            Relations Act (22 U.S.C. 3302(a)); and
                (ii) emphasize capabilities consistent with the 
            asymmetric defense strategy of Taiwan;
            (B) exchanges between senior defense officials and general 
        officers of the United States and Taiwan, consistent with the 
        Taiwan Travel Act (Public Law 115-135), especially for the 
        purpose of enhancing cooperation on defense planning and 
        improving the interoperability of United States and Taiwan 
        forces; and
            (C) opportunities for exchanges between junior officers and 
        senior enlisted personnel of the United States and Taiwan;
        (8) the United States and Taiwan should expand cooperation in 
    humanitarian assistance and disaster relief;
        (9) the Secretary of Defense should consider options, including 
    exercises and ship visits, as appropriate, to expand the scale and 
    scope of humanitarian assistance and disaster response cooperation 
    with Taiwan and other regional partners so as to improve disaster 
    response planning and preparedness; and
        (10) the Secretary of Defense should continue regular transits 
    of United States Navy vessels through the Taiwan Strait, commend 
    the armed forces of France for their April 6, 2019, legal transit 
    of the Taiwan Strait, and encourage allies and partners to follow 
    suit in conducting such transits, in order to demonstrate the 
    commitment of the United States and its allies and partners to fly, 
    sail, and operate anywhere international law allows.
SEC. 1260E. CHINESE FOREIGN DIRECT INVESTMENT IN COUNTRIES OF THE 
ARCTIC REGION.
    (a) Independent Study.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 45 days after the date of 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter 
    into a contract with a federally-funded research and development 
    center described in paragraph (2) to complete an independent study 
    of Chinese foreign direct investment in countries of the Arctic 
    region, with a focus on the effects of such foreign direct 
    investment on United States national security and near-peer 
    competition in the Arctic region.
        (2) Federally-funded research and development center 
    described.--A federally-funded research and development center 
    described in this paragraph is a federally-funded research and 
    development center that--
            (A) has access to relevant data and demonstrated data-sets 
        regarding foreign direct investment in the Arctic region; and
            (B) has access to policy experts throughout the United 
        States and the Arctic region.
    (b) Elements.--The study required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) Projects in the Arctic that are directly or indirectly 
    funded by public and private Chinese entities, to--
            (A) build public infrastructure;
            (B) finance infrastructure;
            (C) lease mineral and oil and gas leases;
            (D) purchase real estate;
            (E) extract or process, including smelting, minerals and 
        oil and gas;
            (F) engage in shipping or to own and operate or construct 
        shipping infrastructure, including ship construction;
            (G) lay undersea cables; and
            (H) manufacture, own or operate telecommunications 
        capabilities and infrastructure.
        (2) An analysis of the legal environment in which Chinese 
    foreign direct investment are occurring in the United States, 
    Russia, Canada, Greenland, Norway, and Iceland. The analysis should 
    include--
            (A) an assessment of the efficacy of mechanisms for 
        screening foreign direct investment in the United States, 
        Russia, Canada, Greenland, Norway, and Iceland;
            (B) an assessment of the degree to which there is 
        transparency in Chinese foreign direct investment in countries 
        of the Arctic region;
            (C) an assessment of the criteria used to assess potential 
        Chinese foreign direct investment in countries of the Arctic 
        region;
            (D) an assessment of the efficacy of methods for monitoring 
        approved Chinese foreign direct investment in countries of the 
        Arctic region; and
            (E) an assessment of public reporting of the decision to 
        approve such Chinese foreign direct investment.
        (3) A comparison of Chinese foreign direct investment in 
    countries of the Arctic region to other countries with major 
    investments in such countries, including India, Japan, South Korea, 
    the Netherlands, and France.
        (4) An assessment of the environmental impact of past Chinese 
    investments in oil and gas, mineral, and infrastructure projects in 
    the Arctic region, including the degree to which Chinese investors 
    are required to comply with local environmental laws and post bonds 
    to assure remediation if a project becomes bankrupt.
        (5) A review of the 2018 Chinese Arctic Policy and other 
    relevant public and nonpublic Chinese policy documents to determine 
    the following:
            (A) China's strategic objectives in the Arctic region from 
        a military, economic, territorial, and political perspective.
            (B) China's goals in the Arctic region with respect to its 
        relations with the United States and Russia, including the 
        degree to which activities of China in the region are an 
        extension of China's strategic competition with the United 
        States.
            (C) Whether any active or planned infrastructure 
        investments are likely to result in a regular presence of 
        Chinese military vessels or the establishment of military bases 
        in the Arctic region.
            (D) The extent to which Chinese research activities in the 
        Arctic region are a front for economic activities, including 
        illegal economic espionage, intelligence gathering, and support 
        for future Chinese military activities in the region.
            (E) The degree to which Arctic littoral states are 
        susceptible to the political and economic risks of unregulated 
        foreign direct investment.
            (F) The vulnerability of semi-autonomous regions, such as 
        tribal lands, to Chinese foreign direct investment, including 
        the influence of legal controls and political or economic 
        manipulation with respect to such vulnerability.
            (G) The implications of China's Arctic development and 
        participation model with respect to forecasting China's 
        military, economy, territorial, and political activities.
        (6) Policy and legislative recommendations to enhance the 
    position of the United States in affairs of the Arctic region, 
    including--
            (A) recommendations for how the United States would best 
        interact with nongovernmental organizations such as the World 
        Bank, Arctic Council, United Nations General Assembly, and 
        International Maritime Organization;
            (B) recommendations to pursue or not pursue the formation 
        of an Arctic Development Bank and, if pursued, how to organize, 
        fund, and operate the bank;
            (C) measures the United States can take to promote regional 
        governance and eliminate the soft-power influence from Chinese 
        foreign direct investment, in particular, steps where the 
        United States and Russia should cooperate; and
            (D) the possibility of negotiating a regional arrangement 
        to regulate foreign direct investment in countries of the 
        Arctic region.
    (c) Report to Department of Defense.--Not later than 720 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the federally-funded research 
and development center with respect to which the Secretary of Defense 
has entered into a contract under subsection (a) shall submit to the 
Secretary a report containing the study under subsections (a) and (b).
    (d) Report to Congress.--Not later than 750 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees the report under subsection (c), 
without change.
    (e) Appropriate Congressional Committee Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees;
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
    Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate; and
        (3) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on 
    Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1260F. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON POLICY TOWARD HONG KONG.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) Congress stands unequivocally with the people of Hong Kong 
    as they defend their rights and freedoms and preserve their 
    autonomy against the People's Republic of China;
        (2) the Government of the People's Republic of China should--
            (A) abide fully by its commitments in the Sino-British 
        Joint Declaration of 1984 to allow the people of Hong Kong a 
        high degree of autonomy to govern Hong Kong;
            (B) adhere fully to Hong Kong's Basic Law of 1997; and
            (C) immediately cease and desist in its interference in the 
        political and legal affairs of Hong Kong;
        (3) the decision of authorities of the Hong Kong Special 
    Autonomous Region in September 2019 to fully withdraw the proposed 
    amendments to the Fugitive Offenders Ordinance of Hong Kong is a 
    necessary first step and should be followed by efforts to resolve 
    the remaining demands raised by protestors who represent a broad 
    cross-section of Hong Kong, which are that authorities--
            (A) drop all charges against individuals who have been 
        arrested for participating in political protests;
            (B) retract the proclamation that the protests were riots;
            (C) establish a thorough and independent investigation into 
        police brutality; and
            (D) implement genuine universal suffrage for the election 
        of the Chief Executive and all Legislative Council members of 
        Hong Kong;
        (4) the United States should--
            (A) work with like-minded countries to stand with the 
        people of Hong Kong;
            (B) encourage more responsible behavior by the People's 
        Republic of China; and
            (C) impose consequences in the event that the authorities 
        of the People's Republic of China and Hong Kong continue to 
        violate fundamental agreements regarding the autonomy of Hong 
        Kong;
        (5) the People's Republic of China should refrain from use of 
    any organization within the military, paramilitary, or law 
    enforcement apparatus of the People's Republic of China to engage 
    in violent suppression in Hong Kong;
        (6) in the event of use of force by the Government of the 
    People's Republic of China against protestors in Hong Kong, 
    Congress will recommend swift action by the United States, 
    including--
            (A) a fundamental reevaluation of the special treatment of 
        Hong Kong under the Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992 (Public Law 
        102-383; 106 Stat. 1448) and other United States law, 
        particularly in areas of law in which the People's Republic of 
        China is exploiting Hong Kong to the detriment of United States 
        interests and values; and
            (B) coordinated actions with like-minded countries to 
        impose meaningful costs on the People's Republic of China, 
        including the imposition of sanctions, travel restrictions, and 
        other actions against responsible senior officials in the 
        Chinese Communist Party, the People's Liberation Army, and the 
        People's Armed Police; and
        (7) if at any point the Government of Hong Kong implements 
    legislation that affects, directly or indirectly, the interests of 
    the United States with respect to an agreement the United States 
    maintains with Hong Kong, including a future reconsideration of 
    amendments to the Fugitive Offenders Ordinance of Hong Kong, the 
    United States should conduct a full review of all relevant 
    agreements between the United States and Hong Kong and make 
    necessary adjustments to those agreements to safeguard United 
    States interests.
SEC. 1260G. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON ENHANCING DEFENSE AND SECURITY 
COOPERATION WITH THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the United States and the Republic of Singapore have built 
    a strong, enduring, and forward-looking strategic partnership based 
    on long-standing and mutually beneficial cooperation, including 
    through security, defense, economic, and people-to-people ties;
        (2) robust security cooperation between the United States and 
    the Republic of Singapore is crucial to promoting peace and 
    stability in the Indo-Pacific region;
        (3) the status of the Republic of Singapore as a major security 
    cooperation partner of the United States, as recognized in the 2005 
    Strategic Framework Agreement between the United States and the 
    Republic of Singapore for a Closer Partnership in Defense and 
    Security, plays an important role in the global network of 
    strategic partnerships, especially in promoting maritime security 
    and countering terrorism;
        (4) the United States values the Republic of Singapore's 
    provision of access to its military facilities, which supports the 
    continued security presence of the United States in Southeast Asia 
    and across the Indo-Pacific region;
        (5) the United States should continue to welcome the presence 
    of the military forces of the Republic of Singapore in the United 
    States for exercises and training, and should consider 
    opportunities to expand such activities at additional locations in 
    the United States, as appropriate; and
        (6) as the United States and the Republic of Singapore have 
    renewed the 1990 Memorandum of Understanding Regarding the United 
    States Use of Facilities in Singapore, the United States should--
            (A) continue to enhance defense and security cooperation 
        with the Republic of Singapore to promote peace and stability 
        in the Indo-Pacific region based on common interests and shared 
        values;
            (B) reinforce the status of the Republic of Singapore as a 
        major security cooperation partner of the United States; and
            (C) explore additional steps to better facilitate 
        interoperability between the United States Armed Forces and the 
        military forces of the Republic of Singapore to promote peace 
        and stability in the Indo-Pacific region.
SEC. 1260H. AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER FUNDS FOR BIEN HOA DIOXIN CLEANUP.
    (a) Transfer Authority.--Notwithstanding section 2215 of title 10, 
United States Code, the Secretary of Defense may transfer to the 
Secretary of State, for use by the United States Agency for 
International Development, amounts to be used for the Bien Hoa dioxin 
cleanup in Vietnam.
    (b) Limitation on Amount.--Not more than $15,000,000 may be 
transferred in fiscal year 2020 under the transfer authority in 
subsection (a).
    (c) Additional Transfer Authority.--The transfer authority in 
subsection (a) is in addition to any other transfer authority available 
to the Department of Defense.
    (d) Notice on Exercise of Authority.--If the Secretary of Defense 
determines to use the transfer authority in subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall notify the congressional defense committees of that 
determination not later than 30 days before the Secretary uses the 
transfer authority.
SEC. 1260I. LIMITATION ON REMOVAL OF HUAWEI TECHNOLOGIES CO. LTD. FROM 
ENTITY LIST OF BUREAU OF INDUSTRY AND SECURITY.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Commerce may not remove Huawei 
Technologies Co. Ltd. or any of its affiliates (in this section 
collectively referred to as ``Huawei'') from the entity list unless and 
until the Secretary certifies to the appropriate congressional 
committees that--
        (1) Huawei has sufficiently resolved or settled the charges 
    that were the basis for the addition of Huawei to the entity list 
    in a manner that is consistent with the standards for the removal 
    of an entity from the entity list under the Export Administration 
    Regulations;
        (2) Huawei has sufficiently resolved or settled any other 
    charges that Huawei violated sanctions imposed by the United 
    States;
        (3) regulations have been implemented that sufficiently 
    restrict exporting to, and importing from, the United States items 
    that would pose a national security threat to telecommunications 
    systems in the United States; and
        (4) the Department of Commerce has mitigated, to the maximum 
    extent possible, other threats to the national security of the 
    United States posed by Huawei.
    (b) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of 
    Commerce shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
    report on licenses issued for exports to Huawei.
        (2) Matters to be included.--For each such license, the report 
    required by paragraph (1) shall describe--
            (A) the items authorized for export;
            (B) the end-uses of the items;
            (C) the identities of the companies granted the license; 
        and
            (D) how the approval of the license is consistent with the 
        national security licensing policy set forth in the Export 
        Administration Regulations.
        (3) Disclosure by appropriate congressional committees.--
    Subclause (ii) of section 1761(h)(2)(B) of the Export Control 
    Reform Act of 2018 (50 U.S.C. 4820(h)(2)(B)) shall apply with 
    respect to information in a report received by the appropriate 
    congressional committees under paragraph (1) to the same extent and 
    in the same manner as such subclause (ii) applies with respect to 
    information made available under subclause (i) of such section 
    1761(h)(2)(B).
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs 
        and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Permanent 
        Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
        Representatives.
        (2) Entity list.--The term ``entity list'' means the list 
    maintained by the Bureau of Industry and Security and set forth in 
    Supplement No. 4 to part 744 of title 15, Code of Federal 
    Regulations.
        (3) Export administration regulations.--The term ``Export 
    Administration Regulations'' means subchapter C of chapter VII of 
    title 15, Code of Federal Regulations.
SEC. 1260J. REPORT ON ZTE COMPLIANCE WITH SUPERSEDING SETTLEMENT 
AGREEMENT AND SUPERSEDING ORDER.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the President shall 
submit to Congress a report on the compliance of Zhongxing 
Telecommunications Equipment Corporation (ZTE Corporation) and ZTE 
Kangxun Telecommunications Ltd. (ZTE Kangxun) (collectively, ``ZTE'') 
with the Superseding Settlement Agreement and Superseding Order reached 
with the Department of Commerce on June 8, 2018.
    (b) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form and publicly accessible, but may include a 
classified annex.
SEC. 1260K. REPORT ON THE LAY-DOWN OF UNITED STATES MARINES IN THE 
INDO-PACIFIC REGION.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the implementation of the 
planned distributed lay-down of members of the United States Marine 
Corps in Okinawa, Guam, Hawaii, Australia, and other locations.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) A description of the relationship between the planned 
    distributed lay-down in the Indo-Pacific region and the 
    implementation of the National Defense Strategy with respect to 
    such region.
        (2) An assessment of the impact of the planned distributed lay-
    down on the ability of the Armed Forces to respond to current and 
    future contingencies in the area of responsibility of United States 
    Indo-Pacific Command that reflects contingency plans of the 
    Department of Defense.
        (3) A description of--
            (A) the implementation timeline for the planned distributed 
        lay-down; and
            (B) progress made on the planned distributed lay-down, as 
        compared with such timeline.
        (4) A description of the adequacy of current and expected 
    training resources at each location associated with the planned 
    distributed lay-down, including--
            (A) the ability to train against the full spectrum of 
        threats from near-peer or peer threats; and
            (B) any projected limitation due to political, 
        environmental, or other limiting factors.
        (5) A description of sustainment concepts to support the 
    planned distributed lay-down, including an assessment of the manner 
    in which the planned distributed lay-down will impact logistics and 
    sustainment requirements in support of contingency plans of the 
    Department of Defense.
        (6) An updated and detailed description of any military 
    construction projects required to execute the distributed lay-down.
        (7) A description of any recommended revision to the current 
    implementation plan, including any recommended new investment 
    associated with any such revision relating to basing, access, and 
    prepositioning in the Indo-Pacific region.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

SEC. 1261. MODIFICATION TO REPORT ON LEGAL AND POLICY FRAMEWORKS FOR 
THE USE OF MILITARY FORCE.
    Section 1264 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1689) is amended--
        (1) in the heading for subsection (a), by striking ``Initial'' 
    and inserting ``Annual'';
        (2) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``90 days after the date 
    of the enactment of this Act'' and inserting ``March 1 of each 
    year'';
        (3) in subsection (a)(2), by striking ``during the period'' and 
    all that follows to the end and inserting: ``from the preceding 
    year, including--
            ``(A) a list of all foreign forces, irregular forces, 
        groups, or individuals for which a determination has been made 
        that force could legally be used under the Authorization for 
        Use of Military Force (Public Law 107-40), including--
                ``(i) the legal and factual basis for such 
            determination; and
                ``(ii) a description of whether force has been used 
            against each such foreign force, irregular force, group, or 
            individual; and
            ``(B) the criteria and any changes to the criteria for 
        designating a foreign force, irregular force, group, or 
        individual as lawfully targetable, as a high value target, and 
        as formally or functionally a member of a group covered under 
        the Authorization for Use of Military Force.''; and
        (4) in subsection (c), by adding at the end the following: 
    ``The unclassified portion of each report shall, at a minimum, 
    include each change made to the legal and policy frameworks during 
    the preceding year and the legal, factual, and policy 
    justifications for such changes, and shall be made available to the 
    public at the same time it is submitted to the appropriate 
    congressional committees.''.
SEC. 1262. INDEPENDENT REVIEW OF SUFFICIENCY OF RESOURCES AVAILABLE TO 
UNITED STATES SOUTHERN COMMAND AND UNITED STATES AFRICA COMMAND.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter into 
a contract with a not-for-profit entity or federally funded research 
and development center independent of the Department of Defense to 
conduct a review of the sufficiency of resources available to United 
States Southern Command and United States Africa Command to carry out 
their respective missions in support of United States national security 
objectives.
    (b) Matters to Be Included.--The review described in subsection (a) 
shall include--
        (1) a review of current and emerging United States national 
    security interests in the United States Southern Command and United 
    States Africa Command areas of responsibilities;
        (2) a review of the National Defense Strategy and its 
    implications for United States presence and activities in the 
    United States Southern Command and United States Africa Command 
    areas of responsibilities;
        (3) a comparative analysis of the National Defense Strategy and 
    the Theater Campaign Plans of United States Southern Command and 
    United States Africa Command, which shall include a description of 
    differences, if any, between the guidance and objectives outlined 
    in the National Defense Strategy and those of the respective 
    Theater Campaign Plans;
        (4) a review of the sufficiency of the resources available to 
    United States Southern Command and United States Africa Command, 
    including personnel, human resources, and financial resources as 
    well as other non-Department of Defense resources available to 
    United States Southern Command and United States Africa Command, in 
    promoting United States national security interests;
        (5) an assessment of the level of regional expertise and 
    experience of the leadership of each such combatant command and 
    their subordinate organizations, service components, and task 
    forces, to include personnel from agencies other than the 
    Department of Defense;
        (6) a description of the strategic objectives and end states in 
    the geographic region for which each such combatant command has 
    responsibility and a comparison of the importance and priority of 
    the resources available to each such combatant command to perform 
    its mission; and
        (7) an assessment of the ability of each such combatant command 
    to carry out their respective missions based on available 
    resources, including non-Department of Defense resources.
    (c) Access to Information.--The not-for-profit entity or federally 
funded research and development center with which the Secretary enters 
into the contract under subsection (a) shall have full and direct 
access to all information related to resources available to United 
States Southern Command and United States Africa Command.
    (d) Report.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall require, as a 
    term of the contract entered into under subsection (a), that not 
    later than 240 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
    the not-for-profit entity or federally funded research and 
    development center with which the Secretary of Defense enters into 
    the contract under subsection (a) shall submit to the Secretary of 
    Defense, the Secretary of State, and the Administrator of the 
    United States Agency for International Development a report that 
    contains the assessment required by subsection (a).
        (2) Submission to congress.--Not later than 1 year after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
    submit to the congressional defense committees--
            (A) a copy of such report without change; and
            (B) any comments the Secretary of Defense considers 
        appropriate.
SEC. 1263. UNITED STATES CENTRAL COMMAND POSTURE ASSESSMENT AND REVIEW.
    (a) Assessment and Review Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter 
    into an agreement with a federally funded research and development 
    center to conduct an independent assessment and comprehensive 
    review of United States military force posture and capabilities in 
    the United States Central Command area of responsibility for the 
    purpose of clarifying and evolving United States military force 
    posture and basing throughout such area of responsibility in 
    accordance with the strategic guidance of the National Defense 
    Strategy during the posture review period.
        (2) Matters to be included.--The assessment and review 
    conducted under paragraph (1) shall include, for the posture review 
    period, the following:
            (A) An assessment of the threats and challenges in the 
        United States Central Command area of responsibility, including 
        threats and challenges posed to United States interests by 
        near-peer competitors.
            (B) An explanation of the policy and strategic frameworks 
        for addressing the threats and challenges identified under 
        subparagraph (A).
            (C) An identification of current and future United States 
        military force posture and capabilities necessary to counter 
        threats, deter conflict, and defend United States national 
        security interests in the United States Central Command area of 
        responsibility.
            (D) An assessment of threats and vulnerabilities to current 
        basing, posture, and readiness in the United States Central 
        Command area of responsibility.
            (E) An assessment of the basing, cooperative security 
        locations, and other infrastructure necessary to support steady 
        state operations in support of the theater campaign plan and 
        potential contingencies that may arise in or affect the United 
        States Central Command area of responsibility, including any 
        potential efficiencies and risk mitigation measures to be 
        taken.
            (F) An assessment of the risks and tradeoffs to United 
        States Central Command priorities resulting from the 
        reorientation of resources toward National Defense Strategy 
        priorities and a description of methods to mitigate any 
        negative impact of such reorientation.
            (G) An explanation of the manner in which a modernized 
        global operating model or dynamic force employment approach may 
        yield efficiencies and increase strategic flexibility while 
        achieving United States military objectives in the United 
        States Central Command area of responsibility.
            (H) An articulation of the United States nonmilitary 
        efforts and activities necessary to enable the achievement of 
        United States national security interests in the United States 
        Central Command area of responsibility.
            (I) Any other matter considered relevant.
    (b) Results.--The federally funded research and development center 
concerned shall submit to the Secretary the results of the assessment 
and review under subsection (a), which shall include the following:
        (1) Considerations and recommendations for improving posture, 
    basing, and readiness in the United States Central Command area of 
    responsibility.
        (2) Alternative basing and posture options to reduce costs, 
    enhance readiness, improve posture, and align with National Defense 
    Strategy priorities.
        (3) Any legislative recommendations--
            (A) to support and facilitate National Defense Strategy 
        implementation with respect to United States Central Command; 
        and
            (B) to modernize or improve basing, posture, and readiness 
        in the United States Central Command area of responsibility.
    (c) Submittal to Congress.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than July 1, 2020, the Secretary 
    shall submit to the congressional defense committees an unaltered 
    copy of the results under subsection (b), together with the written 
    perspectives of the Secretary and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs 
    of Staff with respect to such results.
        (2) Form.--The submission under paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Posture Review Period Defined.--In this section, the term 
``posture review period'' means the period beginning on the date that 
is five years after the date of the enactment of this Act and ending on 
the date that is 15 years after such date of enactment.
SEC. 1264. LIMITATION ON PRODUCTION OF NUCLEAR PROLIFERATION ASSESSMENT 
STATEMENTS.
    (a) Limitation.--The Secretary of State may not provide to the 
President, and the President may not submit to Congress, a Nuclear 
Proliferation Assessment Statement described in subsection a. of 
section 123 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2153) with 
respect to a proposed cooperation agreement with any country that has 
not signed and implemented an Additional Protocol with the 
International Atomic Energy Agency, other than a country with which, as 
of June 19, 2019, there is in effect a civilian nuclear cooperation 
agreement pursuant to such section 123.
    (b) Waiver.--The limitation under subsection (a) shall be waived 
with respect to a particular country beginning on the date that is 90 
days after the date on which the President submits to the appropriate 
congressional committees a report describing the manner in which such 
agreement would advance the national security and defense interests of 
the United States and not contribute to the proliferation of nuclear 
weapons.
    (c) Form.--The report described in subsection (b) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1265. WESTERN HEMISPHERE RESOURCE ASSESSMENT.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter into 
a contract with an independent, non-governmental institute described in 
section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and exempt from 
tax under section 501(a) of such Code, that has recognized credentials 
and expertise in national security and military affairs to conduct an 
accounting of and an assessment of the sufficiency of resources 
available to the United States Southern Command (SOUTHCOM), United 
States Northern Command (NORTHCOM), Department of State, and United 
States Agency for International Development (USAID) to carry out their 
respective missions in the Western Hemisphere.
    (b) Matters to Be Included.--The assessment described in subsection 
(a) shall include each of the following:
        (1) An accounting and description of the funds available to 
    SOUTHCOM, NORTHCOM, the Department of State, and USAID.
        (2) A list of bilateral and multilateral military training and 
    exercises with allies and partner countries in the Western 
    Hemisphere.
        (3) A description of the security force activities of the 
    United States in the Western Hemisphere.
        (4) A description of the activities of the Departments of State 
    and Defense in addressing security challenges in the Western 
    Hemisphere.
        (5) Cyber domain activities of the United States and those 
    actions in concert with allied and partner countries in the Western 
    Hemisphere.
        (6) A description of the funding for all international military 
    education and training programs.
        (7) An overview of all foreign military sales and foreign 
    military financing programs with partner countries in the Western 
    Hemisphere.
        (8) A list of investments, programs, or partnerships in the 
    Western Hemisphere by China, Iran, Russia, or other adversarial 
    groups or countries that threaten the national security of the 
    United States.
        (9) Recommendations for actions the Department of Defense, the 
    Department of State, and USAID could take to advance United States 
    national security interests in the Western Hemisphere.
    (c) Access to Information.--The independent, non-governmental 
institute described in subsection (a) with which the Secretary enters 
into a contract pursuant to such subsection shall have full and direct 
access to all information related to resources available to SOUTHCOM, 
NORTHCOM, the Department of State, and USAID.
    (d) Reports Required.--
        (1) Report of assessment.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
    include as a term in the contract entered into pursuant to 
    subsection (a) that the independent, non-governmental institute 
    shall submit to the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of State, 
    and the Administrator of the USAID a report containing the 
    assessment described in such subsection not later than 240 days 
    after the date of the enactment of this Act.
        (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 1 year after the date 
    of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
    to the appropriate congressional committees a report that 
    includes--
            (A) an unedited copy of the report submitted in accordance 
        to paragraph (1); and
            (B) any comments, changes, recommendations, or other 
        information of the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of 
        State, and the Administrator of the United States Agency for 
        International Development determine appropriate that relates to 
        the assessment required by subsection (a) and contained in such 
        report.
        (3) Form.--The report required by paragraph (2) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
    (e) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--The term 
``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
    Appropriations, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
    Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
    Appropriations, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House 
    of Representatives.
SEC. 1266. HUMAN RIGHTS IN BRAZIL.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
the Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees a report that includes the following:
        (1) A description of the security cooperation relationship 
    between the United States and Brazil, including a description of 
    United States objectives, any ongoing or planned security 
    cooperation activities with the military forces of Brazil, and an 
    identification of priority capabilities of the military forces of 
    Brazil that the Department could enhance.
        (2) An assessment of the capabilities of the military forces of 
    Brazil.
        (3) A description of the human rights climate in Brazil, an 
    assessment of the Brazilian military forces' adherence to human 
    rights, and a description of any ongoing or planned cooperative 
    activities between the United States and Brazil focused on human 
    rights.
        (4) An identification of any Brazilian military and security 
    force units that are determined or credibly alleged to have engaged 
    in human rights violations and have received or purchased United 
    States equipment or training.
        (5) A description of the manner and extent to which a security 
    cooperation strategy between the United States and Brazil could 
    address any human rights abuses identified pursuant to paragraph 
    (3) or (4), encourage accountability, and promote reform through 
    training on human rights, rule of law, and rules of engagement.
        (6) Any other matter the Secretary determines to be relevant.
    (b) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1267. CERTIFICATION RELATING TO ASSISTANCE FOR GUATEMALA.
    (a) In General.--Prior to the transfer of any vehicles by the 
Department of Defense to a joint task force of the Ministry of Defense 
or the Ministry of the Interior of Guatemala during fiscal year 2020, 
the Secretary of Defense shall certify to the appropriate congressional 
committees that such ministries have made a credible commitment to use 
such equipment only for the uses for which they were intended.
    (b) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
    Appropriations, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House 
    of Representatives; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
    Appropriations, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
    Senate.
SEC. 1268. INDEPENDENT ANALYSIS OF HUMAN RIGHTS SITUATION IN HONDURAS.
    (a) Analysis Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall select and 
    enter into an agreement with an independent think tank or a 
    federally funded research and development center to conduct an 
    analysis of the compliance of the military and security forces of 
    Honduras with international human rights laws and standards.
        (2) Matters to be included.--The analysis under paragraph (1) 
    shall include the following:
            (A) A description of the military-to-military activities 
        between the United States and Honduras, including the manner in 
        which Department of Defense engagement with the military and 
        security forces of Honduras supports the National Defense 
        Strategy.
            (B) An analysis of the activities of the military and 
        security forces of Honduras with respect to human rights 
        activists, including--
                (i) a description of the processes and procedures of 
            the Department to identify human rights violations; and
                (ii) an analysis of whether such processes and 
            procedures comply with Department policy on adherence to 
            human rights and international law.
            (C) With respect to United States national security 
        interests, an analysis of the challenges posed by corruption 
        within the military and security forces of Honduras, 
        including--
                (i) an analysis of participation, if any, by the 
            military and security forces of Honduras in illegal 
            narcotics trafficking activities; and
                (ii) the processes and procedures within the military 
            and security forces of Honduras to ensure accountability 
            for such activities.
            (D) An analysis of--
                (i) the security cooperation provided to Honduras by 
            the Department during the 3-year period preceding the date 
            of the enactment of this Act; and
                (ii) the extent to which such cooperation has improved 
            accountability, transparency, and compliance to 
            international human rights laws and standards in the 
            security and military operations of the Government of 
            Honduras.
            (E)(i) An identification of the units of the military and 
        security forces of Honduras trained by the Department.
            (ii) An analysis of the role such units have had, if any, 
        in the training, deployment, and command of the Military Police 
        for Public Order (PMOP) in Honduras.
            (F) An analysis of the security cooperation of the 
        Department with military intelligence and special forces units 
        of Honduras.
            (G) An analysis of the relative importance of providing 
        development assistance to Honduras to achieve United States 
        national security objectives, including countering the 
        proliferation of illegal narcotics flows through Honduras.
            (H) Recommendations on the development of future security 
        cooperation with Honduras that prioritizes--
                (i) compliance of the military and security forces of 
            Honduras with human rights laws and standards;
                (ii) citizen security; and
                (iii) the advancement of United States national 
            security interests with respect to countering the 
            proliferation of illegal narcotics flows through Honduras.
            (I) Any other matters the Secretary considers necessary and 
        relevant to United States national security interests.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the entity selected under subsection (a) shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the 
results of the analysis conducted under that subsection.
    (c) Department of Defense Support.--The Secretary shall provide the 
entity selected under subsection (a) with timely access to appropriate 
information, data, and analyses necessary to carry out such analysis in 
a thorough and independent manner.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1269. BRIEFING ON STRATEGY TO IMPROVE THE EFFORTS OF THE NIGERIAN 
MILITARY TO PREVENT, MITIGATE, AND RESPOND TO CIVILIAN HARM.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State shall jointly 
provide to the congressional defense committees, the Committee on 
Foreign Relations of the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs 
of the House of Representatives a briefing on--
        (1) the current strategy to improve defense institutions and 
    security sector forces in Nigeria required by section 1279A of the 
    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 
    115-91; 131 Stat. 1701);
        (2) any efforts planned or under way to assist the Nigerian 
    military to improve its efforts to prevent, mitigate, and respond 
    to civilian harm;
        (3) an assessment of the effectiveness of such training; and
        (4) an overall assessment of efforts by the Government of 
    Nigeria to improve civilian protection, accountability for human 
    rights violations, and transparency in the defense institutions and 
    security sector force.
SEC. 1270. REPORT ON IMPLICATIONS OF CHINESE MILITARY PRESENCE IN 
DJIBOUTI.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report that contains a comprehensive 
strategy to address security concerns posed by the Chinese People's 
Liberation Army Support Base in Djibouti to United States military 
installations and logistics chains in sub-Saharan Africa and the Middle 
East.
    (b) Matters to Be Included.--The report required by subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
        (1) An assessment of the potential military, intelligence, and 
    logistical threats facing regional United States military 
    infrastructure, supply chains, and operations due to Chinese 
    military presence in Djibouti and a description of any efforts to 
    mitigate such threats.
        (2) An assessment of Djibouti's Chinese-held public debt as 
    well as any other potential means of Chinese economic coercion, and 
    a description of the strategic vulnerabilities posed to the United 
    States if China moves to claim the Port of Djibouti or other key 
    logistical assets in repayment.
        (3) A description of the specific operational challenges facing 
    the United States military in the Horn of Africa and the Middle 
    East in the event that access to the Port of Djibouti becomes 
    limited or lost in its entirety, as well as a description of any 
    contingency plans in the event of such scenarios.
        (4) An identification of the measures in place to mitigate risk 
    of escalation between United States and Chinese military assets in 
    Djibouti or any additional mechanisms that may be advisable.
        (5) Any other matters the Secretary of Defense considers 
    appropriate.
    (c) Form.--The report required under subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 1271. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION ON THE PERMANENT STATIONING OF UNITED 
STATES ARMED FORCES IN SOMALIA.
    Nothing in this Act may be construed to authorize the permanent 
stationing of members of the Armed Forces in Somalia.
SEC. 1272. DEFENSE AND DIPLOMATIC STRATEGY FOR LIBYA.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 270 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
State shall jointly submit to the appropriate congressional committees 
a report that contains a description of the United States defense and 
diplomatic strategy for Libya.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following elements:
        (1) An explanation of the defense and diplomatic strategy for 
    Libya, including a description of the ends, ways, and means 
    inherent to the strategy, and the role of the Armed Forces in 
    supporting the strategy.
        (2) An explanation of the policy and legal authorities of the 
    Department of Defense and the Department of State required to 
    support the strategy.
        (3) A detailed description of Department of Defense security 
    partnerships with Libyan actors.
        (4) A detailed description of Libyan and external security 
    actors and an assessment of how those actors advance or undermine 
    stability in Libya and United States strategic interests in Libya, 
    including United States interests in a political settlement to the 
    conflict in Libya.
        (5) A detailed description of the military activities of 
    external actors in Libya, including assessments of whether those 
    activities--
            (A) have undermined progress towards stabilization of 
        Libya, including the United Nations-led negotiations;
            (B) involve United States-origin equipment and violate 
        contractual conditions of acceptable use of such equipment; or
            (C) violate or seek to violate the United Nations arms 
        embargo on Libya imposed pursuant to United Nations Security 
        Council Resolution 1970 (2011).
        (6) A description of any plans to integrate the United States 
    defense and diplomatic resources necessary to implement the 
    strategy.
        (7) Any other matters the Secretaries considers appropriate.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
    Representatives.
SEC. 1273. PROHIBITION ON IN-FLIGHT REFUELING TO NON-UNITED STATES 
AIRCRAFT THAT ENGAGE IN HOSTILITIES IN THE ONGOING CIVIL WAR IN YEMEN.
    For the two-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the Department of Defense may not provide in-flight refueling 
pursuant to section 2342 of title 10, United States Code, or any other 
applicable statutory authority, to non-United States aircraft that 
engage in hostilities in the ongoing civil war in Yemen unless and 
until a declaration of war or a specific statutory authorization for 
such use of United States Armed Forces has been enacted.
SEC. 1274. REPORT ON SAUDI-LED COALITION STRIKES IN YEMEN.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for two years, the 
Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State and 
the Director of National Intelligence, shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees a report on civilian casualties caused by the 
Saudi-led coalition and by the Houthis as part of the civil war in 
Yemen.
    (b) Matters to Be Included.--Each such report shall contain the 
following:
        (1) An estimate of the number of civilian casualties resulting 
    from operations by the Saudi-led coalition and by the Houthis 
    during the preceding year.
        (2) An assessment of whether members of the Saudi-led coalition 
    and the Houthis followed the norms and practices the United States 
    military employs to avoid civilian casualties and ensure 
    proportionality.
        (3) An assessment of whether operations executed by members of 
    the Saudi-led coalition and by the Houthis are in compliance with 
    the United States' interpretation of the laws governing armed 
    conflict and proportionality.
        (4) Any other matters the Secretary determines to be relevant.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committee Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees; and
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Select Committee 
    on Intelligence of the Senate; and
        (3) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Permanent Select 
    Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1275. REPORTS ON EXPENSES INCURRED FOR IN-FLIGHT REFUELING OF 
SAUDI COALITION AIRCRAFT CONDUCTING MISSIONS RELATING TO CIVIL WAR IN 
YEMEN.
    (a) Reports Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, and every 30 days thereafter, the Secretary 
    of Defense shall submit a report to the appropriate committees of 
    Congress detailing the expenses incurred by the United States in 
    providing in-flight refueling services for Saudi or Saudi-led 
    coalition non-United States aircraft conducting missions as part of 
    the civil war in Yemen during the period of March 1, 2015, through 
    November 11, 2018, and the extent to which such expenses have been 
    reimbursed by members of the Saudi-led coalition.
        (2) Elements.--Each report required under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) The total expenses incurred by the United States in 
        providing in-flight refueling services, including fuel, flight 
        hours, and other applicable expenses, to Saudi or Saudi-led 
        coalition, non-United States aircraft conducting missions as 
        part of the civil war in Yemen.
            (B) The amount of the expenses described in subparagraph 
        (A) that has been reimbursed by each member of the Saudi-led 
        coalition.
            (C) Any action taken by the United States to recoup the 
        remaining expenses described in subparagraph (A), including any 
        commitments by members of the Saudi-led coalition to reimburse 
        the United States for such expenses.
        (3) Sunset.--The reporting requirement under paragraph (1) 
    shall cease to be effective on the date on which the Secretary 
    certifies to the appropriate committees of Congress that all 
    expenses incurred by the United States in providing in-flight 
    refueling services for Saudi or Saudi-led coalition non-United 
    States aircraft conducting missions as part of the civil war in 
    Yemen during the period of March 1, 2015, through November 11, 
    2018, have been reimbursed.
    (b) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
    Representatives;
        (3) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
        (4) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
    Representatives.
SEC. 1276. REPORT ON SAUDI ARABIA'S HUMAN RIGHTS RECORD.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees a report in writing that--
        (1) describes the extent to which officials of the Government 
    of Saudi Arabia, including members of the military or security 
    services, are responsible for or complicit in gross violations of 
    internationally recognized human rights, including violations of 
    the human rights of journalists, bloggers, human rights defenders, 
    and those who support women's rights or religious freedom;
        (2) describes violations of human rights in Saudi Arabia by 
    officials of the Government of Saudi Arabia, including against 
    journalists, bloggers, human rights defenders, and civil society 
    activists;
        (3) describes United States actions to address Saudi violations 
    of human rights, including against journalists, bloggers, human 
    rights defenders, and civil society activists, including demands 
    for clemency review of these cases;
        (4) describes any intolerant content in educational materials 
    published by Saudi Arabia's Ministry of Education that are used in 
    schools both inside Saudi Arabia and at schools throughout the 
    world; and
        (5) describes United States actions to encourage Saudi Arabia 
    to retrieve and destroy materials with intolerant material and 
    revise teacher manuals and retrain teachers to reflect changes in 
    educational materials and promote tolerance.
    (b) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In the section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Select Committee 
    on Intelligence of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Permanent Select 
    Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1277. REPORT ON INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY ASSESSMENT RELATING TO THE 
KILLING OF WASHINGTON POST COLUMNIST JAMAL KHASHOGGI.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report consisting 
of--
        (1) a determination and presentation of evidence with respect 
    to the advance knowledge and role of any current or former official 
    of the Government of Saudi Arabia or any current or former senior 
    Saudi political figure over the directing, ordering, or tampering 
    of evidence in the killing of Washington Post columnist Jamal 
    Khashoggi; and
        (2) a list of foreign persons that the Director of National 
    Intelligence has high confidence--
            (A) were responsible for, or complicit in, ordering, 
        controlling, or otherwise directing an act or acts contributing 
        to or causing the death of Jamal Khashoggi;
            (B) knowingly and materially assisted, sponsored, or 
        provided financial, material, or technological support for, or 
        goods or services in support of, an activity described in 
        subparagraph (A); or
            (C) impeded the impartial investigation of the killing of 
        Jamal Khashoggi, including through the tampering of evidence 
        relating to the investigation.
    (b) Form.--
        (1) In general.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
        (2) Names of foreign persons listed.--The name of each foreign 
    person listed in the report described in subsection (a)(2) shall be 
    included in the unclassified portion of the report unless the 
    Director of National Intelligence determines that such disclosure 
    would undermine United States intelligence sources and methods or 
    threaten the national security interests of the United States.
    (c) Defined.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Permanent 
        Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
        Representatives; and
            (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Select 
        Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.
        (2) Knowingly.--The term ``knowingly'', with respect to 
    conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has 
    actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the 
    circumstance, or the result.
SEC. 1278. UNITED STATES-ISRAEL COOPERATION TO COUNTER UNMANNED AERIAL 
SYSTEMS.
    (a) Authority to Establish Capabilities to Counter Unmanned Aerial 
Systems.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, upon request of the 
    Ministry of Defense of Israel and in consultation with the 
    Secretary of State and the Director of National Intelligence, is 
    authorized to carry out research, development, test, and evaluation 
    activities, on a joint basis with Israel, to establish capabilities 
    for countering unmanned aerial systems that threaten the United 
    States or Israel. Any activities carried out pursuant to such 
    authority shall be conducted in a manner that appropriately 
    protects sensitive technology and information and the national 
    security interests of the United States and Israel.
        (2) Report.--The activities described in paragraph (1) and 
    subsection (b) may not be carried out until after the Secretary of 
    Defense submits to the appropriate committees of Congress a report 
    setting forth the following:
            (A) A memorandum of agreement between the United States and 
        Israel regarding sharing of research and development costs for 
        the capabilities described in paragraph (1), and any supporting 
        documents.
            (B) A certification that the memorandum of agreement--
                (i) requires sharing of costs of projects, including 
            in-kind support, between the United States and Israel;
                (ii) establishes a framework to negotiate the rights to 
            any intellectual property developed under the memorandum of 
            agreement; and
                (iii) requires the United States Government to receive 
            semiannual reports on expenditure of funds, if any, by the 
            Government of Israel, including a description of what the 
            funds have been used for, when funds were expended, and an 
            identification of entities that expended the funds.
    (b) Support in Connection With the Program.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense is authorized to 
    provide maintenance and sustainment support to Israel for the 
    research, development, test, and evaluation activities authorized 
    in subsection (a)(1). Such authority includes authority to install 
    equipment necessary to carry out such research, development, test, 
    and evaluation activities.
        (2) Report.--Support may not be provided under paragraph (1) 
    until 15 days after the Secretary submits to the appropriate 
    committees of Congress a report setting forth a detailed 
    description of the support to be provided.
        (3) Matching contribution.--
            (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B), 
        support may not be provided under this subsection unless the 
        Government of Israel contributes an amount not less than the 
        amount of support to be so provided to the program, project, or 
        activity for which the support is to be so provided in the 
        calendar year in which the support is provided.
            (B) Exception.--Subject to paragraph (4), the Secretary may 
        use amounts available to the Secretary in excess of the amount 
        contributed by the Government of Israel to provide support 
        under this subsection for costs associated with any unique 
        national requirement identified by the United States with 
        respect to countering unmanned aerial systems.
        (4) Annual limitation on amount.--The amount of support 
    provided under this subsection in any year may not exceed 
    $25,000,000.
        (5) Use of certain amounts for rdt&e; activities in the united 
    states.--Of the amount provided by the United States in support 
    under paragraph (1), not less than 50 percent of such amount shall 
    be used for research, development, test, and evaluation activities 
    in the United States in connection with such support.
    (c) Lead Agency.--The Secretary of Defense shall designate an 
appropriate research and development entity of a military department as 
the lead agency of the Department of Defense in carrying out this 
section.
    (d) Semiannual Reports.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
the appropriate committees of Congress on a semiannual basis a report 
that contains a copy of the most recent semiannual report provided by 
the Government of Israel to the Department of Defense pursuant to 
subsection (a)(2)(B)(iii).
    (e) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Relations, the Committee on Homeland Security, the Committee on 
    Appropriations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
    Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Affairs, the Committee on Homeland Security, the Committee on 
    Appropriations, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence 
    of the House of Representatives.
    (f) Sunset.--The authority in this section to carry out activities 
described in subsection (a), and to provide support described in 
subsection (b), shall expire on December 31, 2024.
SEC. 1279. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR UNITED STATES-
ISRAEL ANTI-TUNNEL COOPERATION ACTIVITIES.
    (a) Modification of Authority.--Subsection (a) of section 1279 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (22 U.S.C. 
8606 note) is amended, in the first sentence, by striking ``and to 
establish capabilities for countering unmanned aerial systems''.
    (b) Exception to Matching Contribution Requirement.--Subsection 
(b)(3) of such section is amended--
        (1) by striking ``Support'' and inserting the following:
            ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B), 
        support''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(B) Exception.--Subject to paragraph (4), the Secretary 
        may use amounts available to the Secretary in excess of the 
        amount contributed by the Government of Israel to provide 
        support under this subsection for costs associated with any 
        unique national requirement identified by the United States 
        with respect to anti-tunnel capabilities.''.
    (c) Extension.--Subsection (f) of such section is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2020'' and inserting ``December 31, 2024''.
SEC. 1280. REPORT ON COST IMPOSITION STRATEGY.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with 
the heads of other Federal departments and agencies, as appropriate, 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
describing the cost imposition strategies of the Department of Defense 
with respect to the People's Republic of China and the Russian 
Federation.
    (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
        (1) A description of the manner in which the future-years 
    defense program and current operational concepts of the Department 
    are designed to impose costs on the People's Republic of China and 
    the Russian Federation, including--
            (A) political, economic, budgetary, human capital, and 
        technology costs; and
            (B) costs associated with military efficiency and 
        effectiveness.
        (2) A description of the policies and processes of the 
    Department relating to the development and execution of cost 
    imposition strategies.
    (c) Form.--The report under subsection (a) shall be submitted in 
classified form, and shall include an unclassified summary.
SEC. 1281. MODIFICATION OF INITIATIVE TO SUPPORT PROTECTION OF NATIONAL 
SECURITY ACADEMIC RESEARCHERS FROM UNDUE INFLUENCE AND OTHER SECURITY 
THREATS.
    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 1286 of the John S. 
McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public 
Law 115-232) is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
striking ``academic institutions'' and inserting ``institutions of 
higher education''.
    (b) Additional Requirements.--Subsection (c) of such section is 
amended--
        (1) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
        ``(2) Training developed and delivered in consultation with 
    institutions of higher education and appropriate Government 
    agencies, and other support to institutions of higher education, to 
    promote security and limit undue influence on institutions of 
    higher education and personnel, including Department of Defense 
    financial support to carry out such activities, that--
            ``(A) emphasizes best practices for protection of sensitive 
        national security information; and
            ``(B) includes the dissemination of unclassified materials 
        and resources for identifying and protecting against emerging 
        threats to institutions of higher education, including specific 
        counterintelligence information and advice developed 
        specifically for faculty and academic researchers based on 
        actual identified threats.'';
        (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``and academic 
    institutions'';
        (3) in paragraph (7), by striking ``academic institution'' and 
    inserting ``institution of higher education''; and
        (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(8) A list, developed and continuously updated in 
    consultation with the Bureau of Industry and Security of the 
    Department of Commerce, the Director of National Intelligence, 
    United States institutions of higher education that conduct 
    significant Department of Defense research or engineering 
    activities, and other appropriate individuals and organizations, of 
    academic institutions of the People's Republic of China, the 
    Russian Federation, and other countries, that--
            ``(A) have a history of improper technology transfer, 
        intellectual property theft, or cyber or human espionage;
            ``(B) operate under the direction of the military forces or 
        intelligence agency of the applicable country;
            ``(C) are known--
                ``(i) to recruit foreign individuals for the purpose of 
            transferring knowledge to advance military or intelligence 
            efforts; or
                ``(ii) to provide misleading information or otherwise 
            attempt to conceal the connections of an individual or 
            institution to a defense or an intelligence agency of the 
            applicable country; or
            ``(D) pose a serious risk of improper technology transfer 
        of data, technology, or research that is not published or 
        publicly available.''.
    (c) Procedures for Enhanced Information Sharing.--Subsection (d) of 
such section is amended to read as follows:
    ``(d) Procedures for Enhanced Information Sharing.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not later than October 1, 2020, for the 
    purpose of maintaining appropriate security controls over research 
    activities, technical information, and intellectual property, the 
    Secretary, in conjunction with appropriate public and private 
    entities, shall establish streamlined procedures to collect 
    appropriate information relating to individuals, including United 
    States citizens and foreign nationals, who participate in defense 
    research and development activities (other than basic research).
        ``(2) Protection from release.--The procedures required by 
    paragraph (1) shall include procedures to protect such information 
    from release, consistent with applicable regulations.
        ``(3) Reporting to government information systems and 
    repositories.--The procedures required by paragraph (1) may include 
    procedures developed, in coordination with appropriate public and 
    private entities, to report such information to existing Government 
    information systems and repositories.''.
    (d) Annual Report.--Subsection (e) of such section is amended--
        (1) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``Annual'' before 
    ``Report'';
        (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``one year after the date of 
    the enactment'' and all that follows through ``the Secretary'' and 
    inserting ``April 30, 2020, and annually thereafter, the Secretary, 
    acting through appropriate Government officials (including the 
    Under Secretary for Research and Engineering),''; and
        (3) in paragraph (2), by adding at the end the following new 
    subparagraph:
            ``(F) Identification of any incident relating to undue 
        influence to security threats to academic research activities 
        funded by the Department of Defense, including theft of 
        property or intellectual property relating to a project funded 
        by the Department at an institution of higher education.''.
SEC. 1282. MODIFICATION OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR POLICY ON CIVILIAN 
CASUALTY MATTERS.
    Section 936 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 10 U.S.C. 134 note) is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)--
            (A) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``appropriate to the 
        specific regional circumstances'' after ``publicly available 
        means'';
            (B) in paragraph (5)--
                (i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``, including for 
            acknowledging the status of any individuals killed or 
            injured who were believed to be enemy combatants, but 
            subsequently determined to be non-combatants'' after 
            ``operations''; and
                (ii) in subparagraph (B)--

                    (I) by inserting ``or other assistance'' after 
                ``payments''; and
                    (II) by striking ``necessary'' and inserting 
                ``reasonable and culturally appropriate''; and

            (C) in paragraph (7), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (D) by redesignating paragraph (8) as paragraph (9); and
            (E) by inserting after paragraph (7) the following:
        ``(8) cultivating, developing, retaining, and disseminating--
            ``(A) lessons learned for integrating civilian protection 
        into operational planning and identifying the proximate cause 
        or causes of civilian casualties; and
            ``(B) practices developed to prevent, mitigate, or respond 
        to such casualties;'';
        (2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d);
        (3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
    ``(c) Coordination.--The senior civilian official designated under 
subsection (a) shall develop and implement steps to increase 
coordination with the relevant Chiefs of Mission and other appropriate 
positions in the Department of State with respect to the policies 
required pursuant to subsection (a) and other matters or assistance 
related to civilian harm, resulting from military operations.''; and
        (4) by inserting after subsection (d), as so redesignated, the 
    following:
    ``(e) Briefing.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this subsection, the senior civilian official designated 
under subsection (a) shall provide to the congressional defense 
committees a briefing on--
        ``(1) the updates made to the policy developed by the senior 
    civilian official pursuant to this section; and
        ``(2) the efforts of the Department to implement such 
    updates.''.
SEC. 1283. REPORT ON EXPORT OF CERTAIN SATELLITES TO ENTITIES WITH 
CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP STRUCTURES.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with 
the heads of appropriate agencies, shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees a report on addressing the threat or potential 
threat posed by the export, reexport, or in-country transfer of 
satellites described in section 1261(c)(1) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 22 U.S.C. 
2778 note) to entities described in subsection (b).
    (b) Entities Described.--
        (1) In general.--An entity described in this subsection is an 
    entity the beneficial owner of which is--
            (A) an individual who is a citizen or national of a country 
        described in section 1261(c)(2) of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013;
            (B) an entity organized under the laws of or otherwise 
        subject to the jurisdiction of such a country;
            (C) the government of such a country; or
            (D) any other individual or entity the Secretary determines 
        would detrimentally affect the national security of the United 
        States.
        (2) Determination of beneficial ownership.--For purposes of 
    paragraph (1), the Secretary shall identify a person as the 
    beneficial owner of an entity--
            (A) in a manner that is not less stringent than the manner 
        set forth in section 240.13d-3 of title 17, Code of Federal 
        Regulations (as in effect on the date of the enactment of this 
        Act); and
            (B) based on a threshold, to be determined by the 
        Secretary, based on an assessment of whether the person's 
        position would give the person an opportunity to control the 
        use of a satellite described in section 1261(c)(1) of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 and 
        exported, reexported, or transferred in country to the entity.
    (c) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) An evaluation of whether satellites described in section 
    1261(c)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
    Year 2013 have been exported, reexported, or transferred in-
    country, directly or indirectly, to entities described in 
    subsection (b).
        (2) An examination of the effect on national security of the 
    potential export, reexport, or in-country transfer of satellites in 
    compliance with section 1261(c) of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 in circumstances in which 
    the services, bandwidth, or functions of the satellites could 
    subsequently be leased or sold to, or otherwise used by, an entity 
    described in subsection (b).
        (3) An examination of the effect on national security of not 
    limiting the export, reexport, or in-country transfer of such 
    satellites to entities described in subsection (b).
        (4) Recommendations for, and an assessment of the effectiveness 
    of, a licensing condition that would prohibit or limit the export, 
    reexport, or in-country transfer of such satellites to, or the use 
    of such satellites by, entities described in subsection (b).
        (5) An assessment, based on realistic and justifiable 
    assumptions and forecasts, of the economic implications of and 
    potential harm caused by a licensing condition described in 
    paragraph (4) on the United States industries that develop or 
    produce satellites and commercial telecommunications equipment that 
    do not have direct national security ties.
        (6) An evaluation of the resources necessary to ensure the 
    ability of the Bureau of Industry and Security of the Department of 
    Commerce--
            (A) to adequately identify and analyze the beneficial 
        owners of entities in decisions relating to--
                (i) issuing licenses for the export, reexport, or in-
            country transfer of such satellites to such entities; or
                (ii) the ultimate end uses and end-users of such 
            satellites; and
            (B) when evaluating such a decision--
                (i) to have full knowledge of the potential end-user of 
            the satellite and the current beneficial owner of the 
            entity; and
                (ii) to be able to determine whether issuing the 
            license would be inconsistent with the goal of preventing 
            entities described in subsection (b) from accessing or 
            using such satellites.
    (d) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (e) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Banking, 
    Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
    Transportation, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Select 
    Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Financial 
    Services, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, the Committee on 
    Foreign Affairs, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence 
    of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1284. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION RELATING TO THE USE OF MILITARY FORCE.
    Nothing in this Act, or any amendment made by this Act, may be 
construed to authorize the use of military force, including the use of 
military force against Iran or any other country.
SEC. 1285. REPORTS AND BRIEFINGS ON USE OF MILITARY FORCE AND SUPPORT 
OF PARTNER FORCES.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the President 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees, the Committee on 
Foreign Relations of the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs 
of the House of Representatives a report on actions taken pursuant to 
the Authorization for Use of Military Force (Public Law 107-40) against 
those countries or organizations described in such law, as well as any 
actions taken to command, coordinate, participate in the movement of, 
or accompany the regular or irregular military forces of any foreign 
country or government when such forces are engaged in hostilities or in 
situations where imminent involvement in hostilities is clearly 
indicated by the circumstances, during the preceding 180-day period.
    (b) Matters to Be Included.--The report required by subsection (a) 
shall include, with respect to the time period for which the report was 
submitted, the following:
        (1) A list of each country or organization with respect to 
    which force has been used pursuant to the Authorization for Use of 
    Military Force, including the legal and factual basis for the 
    determination that authority under such law applies with respect to 
    each such country or organization.
        (2) An intelligence assessment of the risk to the United States 
    posed by each such country or organization.
        (3) A list of each country in which operations were conducted 
    pursuant to such law and a description of the circumstances 
    necessitating the use of force pursuant to such law, including 
    whether the country is designated as an area of active hostilities.
        (4) A general description of the status of operations conducted 
    pursuant to such law as well as a description of the expected scope 
    and duration of such operations.
        (5) A list of each partner force and country with respect to 
    which United States Armed Forces have commanded, coordinated, 
    participated in the movement of, or accompanied the regular or 
    irregular forces of any foreign country or government that have 
    engaged in hostilities or there existed an imminent threat that 
    such forces would become engaged in hostilities, including--
            (A) a delineation of any such instances in which such 
        United States Armed Forces were or were not operating under the 
        Authorization for Use of Military Force; and
            (B) a determination of whether the foreign forces, 
        irregular forces, groups, or individuals against which such 
        hostilities occurred are covered by such law.
        (6) A description of the actual and proposed contributions, 
    including financing, equipment, training, troops, and logistical 
    support, provided by each foreign country that participates in any 
    international coalition with the United States to combat a country 
    or organization described in the Authorization for Use of Military 
    Force.
    (c) Form.--The information required under paragraphs (1) and (2) of 
subsection (b) shall be submitted in unclassified form.
    (d) Other Reports.--If United States Armed Forces are introduced 
into hostilities, or into situations where imminent involvement in 
hostilities is clearly indicated by the circumstances, against any 
country, organization, or person pursuant to statutory or 
constitutional authorities other than Authorization for Use of Military 
Force, the President shall comply with the reporting requirements 
under--
        (1) this section to the same extent and in the same manner as 
    if such actions had been taken under Authorization for Use of 
    Military Force;
        (2) the War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.); and
        (3) any other applicable provision of law.
    (e) Briefings.--At least once during each 180-day period described 
in subsection (a), the President shall provide to the congressional 
defense committees, the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, 
and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a 
briefing on the matters covered by the report required under this 
section for such period.

                TITLE XIII--COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION

Sec. 1301.  Funding allocations; specification of cooperative threat 
          reduction funds.
SECTION 1301. FUNDING ALLOCATIONS; SPECIFICATION OF COOPERATIVE THREAT 
REDUCTION FUNDS.
    (a) Funding Allocations.--Of the $338,700,000 authorized to be 
appropriated to the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2010 in 
section 301 and made available by the funding table in division D for 
the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program 
established under section 1321 of the Department of Defense Cooperative 
Threat Reduction Act (50 U.S.C. 3711), the following amounts may be 
obligated for the purposes specified:
        (1) For strategic offensive arms elimination, $492,000.
        (2) For chemical weapons destruction, $12,856,000.
        (3) For global nuclear security, $33,919,000.
        (4) For cooperative biological engagement, $183,642,000.
        (5) For proliferation prevention, $79,869,000.
        (6) For activities designated as Other Assessments/
    Administrative Costs, $27,922,000.
    (b) Specification of Cooperative Threat Reduction Funds.--Funds 
appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
301 and made available by the funding table in division D for the 
Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program shall be 
available for obligation for fiscal years 2020, 2021, and 2022.

                    TITLE XIV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

                      Subtitle A--Military Programs

Sec. 1401. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1402. Chemical agents and munitions destruction, defense.
Sec. 1403. Drug interdiction and counter-drug activities, defense-wide.
Sec. 1404. Defense inspector general.
Sec. 1405. Defense health program.

                        Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 1411. Authority for transfer of funds to joint Department of 
          Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
          Demonstration Fund for Captain James A. Lovell Health Care 
          Center, Illinois.
Sec. 1412. Authorization of appropriations for Armed Forces Retirement 
          Home.

                     Subtitle A--Military Programs

SEC. 1401. WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for providing capital for working capital and 
revolving funds, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
SEC. 1402. CHEMICAL AGENTS AND MUNITIONS DESTRUCTION, DEFENSE.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2020 
for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for Chemical Agents and 
Munitions Destruction, Defense, as specified in the funding table in 
section 4501.
    (b) Use.--Amounts authorized to be appropriated under subsection 
(a) are authorized for--
        (1) the destruction of lethal chemical agents and munitions in 
    accordance with section 1412 of the Department of Defense 
    Authorization Act, 1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521); and
        (2) the destruction of chemical warfare materiel of the United 
    States that is not covered by section 1412 of such Act.
SEC. 1403. DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE-WIDE.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2020 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide, 
as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
SEC. 1404. DEFENSE INSPECTOR GENERAL.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2020 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of 
Defense, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
SEC. 1405. DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the Defense Health Program for use of the Armed Forces and other 
activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for providing for 
the health of eligible beneficiaries, as specified in the funding table 
in section 4501.

                       Subtitle B--Other Matters

SEC. 1411. AUTHORITY FOR TRANSFER OF FUNDS TO JOINT DEPARTMENT OF 
DEFENSE-DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL FACILITY DEMONSTRATION 
FUND FOR CAPTAIN JAMES A. LOVELL HEALTH CARE CENTER, ILLINOIS.
    (a) Authority for Transfer of Funds.--Of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated by section 1405 and available for the Defense Health 
Program for operation and maintenance, $127,000,000 may be transferred 
by the Secretary of Defense to the Joint Department of Defense-
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund 
established by subsection (a)(1) of section 1704 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 
Stat. 2571). For purposes of subsection (a)(2) of such section 1704, 
any funds so transferred shall be treated as amounts authorized and 
appropriated specifically for the purpose of such a transfer.
    (b) Use of Transferred Funds.--For the purposes of subsection (b) 
of such section 1704, facility operations for which funds transferred 
under subsection (a) may be used are operations of the Captain James A. 
Lovell Federal Health Care Center, consisting of the North Chicago 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, the Navy Ambulatory Care Center, and 
supporting facilities designated as a combined Federal medical facility 
under an operational agreement covered by section 706 of the Duncan 
Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public 
Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500).
SEC. 1412. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT 
HOME.
    There is hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
from the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund the sum of $64,300,000 
for the operation of the Armed Forces Retirement Home.

   TITLE XV--AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR OVERSEAS 
                         CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

Sec. 1501. Purpose.
Sec. 1502. Treatment as additional authorizations.

  Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations for Overseas Contingency 
                               Operations

Sec. 1511. Overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 1512. Procurement.
Sec. 1513.  Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 1514. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 1515. Military personnel.
Sec. 1516. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1517. Drug interdiction and counter-drug activities, defense-wide.
Sec. 1518. Defense inspector general.
Sec. 1519. Defense health program.
Sec. 1520. Afghanistan security forces fund.
Sec. 1520A. Special transfer authority.

  Subtitle B--Authorization of Appropriations for Emergency Funds for 
                        Recovery and Restoration

Sec. 1521. Procurement.
Sec. 1522. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 1523. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 1524. Restriction on transfer of funds authorized by this subtitle.
SEC. 1501. PURPOSE.
    The purposes of this title are to authorize appropriations for the 
Department of Defense for fiscal year 2020--
        (1) to provide additional funds for overseas contingency 
    operations being carried out by the Armed Forces; and
        (2) to provide additional emergency funds for the recovery and 
    restoration of military missions and activities at military 
    installations in California, Florida, North Carolina, and Nebraska 
    that were impacted by natural disasters.
SEC. 1502. TREATMENT AS ADDITIONAL AUTHORIZATIONS.
    The amounts authorized to be appropriated by this title are in 
addition to amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act.

 Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations for Overseas Contingency 
                               Operations

SEC. 1511. OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the Department of Defense for overseas contingency operations in 
such amounts as may be designated as provided in section 
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)(ii)).
SEC. 1512. PROCUREMENT.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for procurement accounts for the Army, the Navy and the Marine Corps, 
the Air Force, and Defense-wide activities, as specified in the funding 
table in section 4102.
SEC. 1513. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, 
test, and evaluation, as specified in the funding table in section 
4202.
SEC. 1514. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
operation and maintenance, as specified in the funding table in section 
4302.
SEC. 1515. MILITARY PERSONNEL.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, 
military personnel accounts, as specified in the funding table in 
section 4402.
SEC. 1516. WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for providing capital for working capital and 
revolving funds, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.
SEC. 1517. DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE-WIDE.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2020 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide, 
as specified in the funding table in section 4502.
SEC. 1518. DEFENSE INSPECTOR GENERAL.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2020 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of 
Defense, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.
SEC. 1519. DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2020 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Defense Health Program, as specified in the funding table 
in section 4502.
SEC. 1520. AFGHANISTAN SECURITY FORCES FUND.
    (a) Continuation of Prior Authorities and Notice and Reporting 
Requirements.--Funds available to the Department of Defense for the 
Afghanistan Security Forces Fund for fiscal year 2020 shall be subject 
to the conditions contained in--
        (1) subsections (b) through (f) of section 1513 of the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 
    122 Stat. 428); and
        (2) section 1521(d)(1) of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2577).
    (b) Equipment Disposition.--
        (1) Acceptance of certain equipment.--Subject to paragraph (2), 
    the Secretary of Defense may accept equipment that is procured 
    using amounts authorized to be appropriated for the Afghanistan 
    Security Forces Fund by this Act and is intended for transfer to 
    the security forces of the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of 
    the Interior of the Government of Afghanistan, but is not accepted 
    by such security forces.
        (2) Conditions on acceptance of equipment.--Before accepting 
    any equipment under the authority provided by paragraph (1), the 
    Commander of United States forces in Afghanistan shall make a 
    determination that such equipment was procured for the purpose of 
    meeting requirements of the security forces of the Ministry of 
    Defense and the Ministry of the Interior of the Government of 
    Afghanistan, as agreed to by both the Government of Afghanistan and 
    the Government of the United States, but is no longer required by 
    such security forces or was damaged before transfer to such 
    security forces.
        (3) Elements of determination.--In making a determination under 
    paragraph (2) regarding equipment, the Commander of United States 
    forces in Afghanistan shall consider alternatives to the acceptance 
    of such equipment by the Secretary. An explanation of each 
    determination, including the basis for the determination and the 
    alternatives considered, shall be included in the relevant 
    quarterly report required under paragraph (5).
        (4) Treatment as department of defense stocks.--Equipment 
    accepted under the authority provided by paragraph (1) may be 
    treated as stocks of the Department of Defense upon notification to 
    the congressional defense committees of such treatment.
        (5) Quarterly reports on equipment disposition.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act and every 90-day period thereafter 
        during which the authority provided by paragraph (1) is 
        exercised, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
        defense committees a report describing the equipment accepted 
        during the period covered by such report under the following:
                (i) This subsection.
                (ii) Section 1521(b) of the National Defense 
            Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
            130 Stat. 2575).
                (iii) Section 1531(b) of the National Defense 
            Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 
            129 Stat. 1088).
                (iv) Section 1532(b) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
            ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for 
            Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3613).
                (v) Section 1531(d) of the National Defense 
            Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 
            127 Stat. 938; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note).
            (B) Elements.--Each report under subparagraph (A) shall 
        include a list of all equipment that was accepted during the 
        period covered by such report and treated as stocks of the 
        Department of Defense and copies of the determinations made 
        under paragraph (2), as required by paragraph (3).
    (c) Security of Afghan Women.--
        (1) In general.--Of the funds available to the Department of 
    Defense for the Afghan Security Forces Fund for fiscal year 2020, 
    it is the goal that $45,500,000, but in no event less than 
    $10,000,000, shall be used for--
            (A) the recruitment, integration, retention, training, and 
        treatment of women in the Afghan National Defense and Security 
        Forces; and
            (B) the recruitment, training, and contracting of female 
        security personnel for future elections.
        (2) Types of programs and activities.--Such programs and 
    activities may include--
            (A) efforts to recruit and retain women into the Afghan 
        National Defense and Security Forces, including the special 
        operations forces;
            (B) programs and activities of the Directorate of Human 
        Rights and Gender Integration of the Ministry of Defense of 
        Afghanistan and the Office of Human Rights, Gender and Child 
        Rights of the Ministry of Interior of Afghanistan;
            (C) development and dissemination of gender and human 
        rights educational and training materials and programs within 
        the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Interior of 
        Afghanistan;
            (D) efforts to address harassment and violence against 
        women within the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces;
            (E) improvements to infrastructure that address the 
        requirements of women serving in the Afghan National Defense 
        and Security Forces, including appropriate equipment for female 
        security and police forces, and transportation for policewomen 
        to their station;
            (F) support for Afghanistan National Police Family Response 
        Units;
            (G) security provisions for high-profile female police and 
        military officers;
            (H) programs to promote conflict prevention, management, 
        and resolution through the meaningful participation of Afghan 
        women in the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces, by 
        exposing Afghan women and girls to the activities of and 
        careers available with such forces, encouraging their interest 
        in such careers, or developing their interest and skills 
        necessary for service in such forces; and
            (I) enhancements to Afghan National Defense and Security 
        Forces recruitment programs for targeted advertising with the 
        goal of increasing the number of female recruits.
    (d) Assessment of Afghanistan Progress on Objectives.--
        (1) Assessment required.--Not later than June 1, 2020, the 
    Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the Secretary of 
    State, submit to the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee 
    on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the 
    Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations 
    of the Senate an assessment describing--
            (A) the progress of the Government of the Islamic Republic 
        of Afghanistan toward meeting shared security objectives; and
            (B) the efforts of the Government of the Islamic Republic 
        of Afghanistan to manage, employ, and sustain the equipment and 
        inventory provided under subsection (a).
        (2) Matters to be included.--In conducting the assessment 
    required by paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense shall include 
    each of the following:
            (A) The extent to which the Government of Afghanistan has a 
        strategy for, and has taken steps toward, increased 
        accountability and the reduction of corruption within the 
        Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Interior of 
        Afghanistan.
            (B) The extent to which the capability and capacity of the 
        Afghan National Defense and Security Forces have improved as a 
        result of Afghanistan Security Forces Fund investment, 
        including through training, and an articulation of the metrics 
        used to assess such improvements.
            (C) The extent to which the Afghan National Defense and 
        Security Forces have been able to increase pressure on the 
        Taliban, al-Qaeda, the Haqqani network, the Islamic State of 
        Iraq and Syria-Khorasan, and other terrorist organizations, 
        including by re-taking territory, defending territory, and 
        disrupting attacks.
            (D) The distribution practices of the Afghan National 
        Defense and Security Forces and whether the Government of 
        Afghanistan is ensuring that supplies, equipment, and weaponry 
        supplied by the United States are appropriately distributed to, 
        and employed by, security forces charged with fighting the 
        Taliban and other terrorist organizations.
            (E) A description of--
                (i) the policy governing the use of Acquisition and 
            Cross Servicing Agreements (ACSA) in Afghanistan;
                (ii) each ACSA transaction by type, amount, and 
            recipient for the period beginning on October 1, 2018, and 
            ending December 31, 2019; and
                (iii) for any transactions from the United States to 
            Afghan military forces, an explanation for why such 
            transaction was not carried out under the authorities of 
            the Afghanistan Security Forces Fund.
            (F) The extent to which the Government of Afghanistan has 
        designated the appropriate staff, prioritized the development 
        of relevant processes, and provided or requested the allocation 
        of resources necessary to support a peace and reconciliation 
        process in Afghanistan.
            (G) A description of the ability of the Ministry of Defense 
        and the Ministry of Interior of Afghanistan to manage and 
        account for previously divested equipment, including a 
        description of any vulnerabilities or weaknesses of the 
        internal controls of such Ministry of Defense and Ministry of 
        Interior and any plan in place to address shortfalls.
            (H) A description of any significant irregularities in the 
        divestment of equipment to the Afghan National Defense and 
        Security Forces during the period beginning on May 1, 2019, and 
        ending on May 1, 2020, including any major losses of such 
        equipment or any inability on the part of the Afghan National 
        Defense and Security Forces to account for equipment so 
        procured.
            (I) A description of the sustainment and maintenance costs 
        required during the 5-year period beginning on the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, for major weapons platforms previously 
        divested, and a description of the plan for the Afghan National 
        Defense and Security Forces to maintain such platforms in the 
        future.
            (J) The extent to which the Government of Afghanistan is 
        adhering to conditions for receiving assistance established in 
        annual financial commitment letters or any other bilateral 
        agreements with the United States.
            (K) The extent to which the Government of Afghanistan has 
        made progress in achieving security sector benchmarks as 
        outlined by the United States-Afghan Compact (commonly known as 
        the ``Kabul Compact'') and a description of any other 
        documents, plans, or agreements used by the United States to 
        measure security sector progress.
            (L) Such other factors as the Secretaries consider 
        appropriate.
        (3) Form.--The assessment required by paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
        (4) Withholding of assistance for insufficient progress.--
            (A) In general.--If the Secretary of Defense determines, in 
        coordination with the Secretary of State and pursuant to the 
        assessment under paragraph (1), that the Government of 
        Afghanistan has made insufficient progress in the areas 
        described in paragraph (2), the Secretary of Defense shall--
                (i) withhold $480,000,000, to be derived from amounts 
            made available for assistance for the Afghan National 
            Defense and Security Forces, from expenditure or obligation 
            until the date on which the Secretary certifies to the 
            congressional defense committees that the Government of 
            Afghanistan has made sufficient progress; and
                (ii) notify the congressional defense committees not 
            later than 30 days before withholding such funds.
            (B) Waiver.--If the Secretary of Defense determines that 
        withholding such assistance would impede the national security 
        objectives of the United States by prohibiting, restricting, 
        delaying, or otherwise limiting the provision of assistance, 
        the Secretary may waive the withholding requirement under 
        subparagraph (A) if the Secretary, in coordination with the 
        Secretary of State, certifies such determination to the 
        congressional defense committees not later than 30 days before 
        the effective date of the waiver.
    (e) Additional Reporting Requirements.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall include in the materials submitted in support of the budget for 
fiscal year 2021 that is submitted by the President under section 
1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, each of the following:
        (1) The amount of funding provided in fiscal year 2019 through 
    the Afghanistan Security Forces Fund to the Government of 
    Afghanistan in the form of direct government-to-government 
    assistance or on-budget assistance for the purposes of supporting 
    any entity of such government, including the Afghan National 
    Defense and Security Forces, the Afghan Ministry of Interior, or 
    the Afghan Ministry of Defense.
        (2) The amount of funding provided and anticipated to be 
    provided, as of the date of the submission of the materials, in 
    fiscal year 2020 through such Fund in such form.
        (3) To the extent the amount described in paragraph (2) exceeds 
    the amount described in paragraph (1), an explanation as to the 
    reason why the such amount is greater and the specific entities and 
    purposes that were supported by such increase.
SEC. 1520A. SPECIAL TRANSFER AUTHORITY.
    (a) Authority to Transfer Authorizations.--
        (1) Authority.--Upon determination by the Secretary of Defense 
    that such action is necessary in the national interest, the 
    Secretary may transfer amounts of authorizations made available to 
    the Department of Defense in this subtitle for fiscal year 2020 
    between any such authorizations for that fiscal year (or any 
    subdivisions thereof). Amounts of authorizations so transferred 
    shall be merged with and be available for the same purposes as the 
    authorization to which transferred.
        (2) Limitation.--The total amount of authorizations that the 
    Secretary may transfer under the authority of this subsection may 
    not exceed $2,000,000,000.
    (b) Terms and Conditions.--Transfers under this section shall be 
subject to the same terms and conditions as transfers under section 
1001.
    (c) Additional Authority.--The transfer authority provided by this 
section is in addition to the transfer authority provided under section 
1001.

  Subtitle B--Authorization of Appropriations for Emergency Funds for 
                        Recovery and Restoration

SEC. 1521. PROCUREMENT.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for procurement accounts for the Army, the Navy and the Marine Corps, 
the Air Force, and Defense-wide activities, as specified in the funding 
table in section 4103.
SEC. 1522. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, 
test, and evaluation, as specified in the funding table in section 
4203.
SEC. 1523. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
operation and maintenance, as specified in the funding table in section 
4303.
SEC. 1524. RESTRICTION ON TRANSFER OF FUNDS AUTHORIZED BY THIS 
SUBTITLE.
    (a) Authority.--Upon determination by the Secretary of Defense that 
such action is necessary in the national interest, the Secretary may 
transfer amounts of authorizations made available to the Department of 
Defense in this subtitle for fiscal year 2020 between any such 
authorizations for that fiscal year (or any subdivisions thereof). 
Amounts of authorizations so transferred shall be merged with the 
authorization to which transferred and shall be available for the 
recovery and restoration of military missions and activities at 
military installations in California, Florida, North Carolina, and 
Nebraska impacted by natural disasters.
    (b) Additional Authority.--The transfer authority provided by this 
section is in addition to the transfer authority provided under 
sections 1001 and 1520A.
    (c) Terms and Conditions.--Transfers under this section shall be 
subject to the same terms and conditions as transfers under section 
1001.

     TITLE XVI--STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

                      Subtitle A--Space Activities

Sec. 1601. Repeal of requirement to establish United States Space 
          Command as a subordinate unified command of the United States 
          Strategic Command.
Sec. 1602. Coordination of modernization efforts relating to military-
          code capable GPS receiver cards.
Sec. 1603. Demonstration of backup and complementary positioning, 
          navigation, and timing capabilities of Global Positioning 
          System.
Sec. 1604. Annual determination on plan on full integration and 
          exploitation of overhead persistent infrared capability.
Sec. 1605. Space-based environmental monitoring mission requirements.
Sec. 1606. Resilient enterprise ground architecture.
Sec. 1607. Prototype program for multi-global navigation satellite 
          system receiver development.
Sec. 1608. Commercial space situational awareness capabilities.
Sec. 1609. Program to enhance and improve launch support and 
          infrastructure.
Sec. 1610. Preparation to implement plan for use of allied launch 
          vehicles.
Sec. 1611. Independent study on plan for deterrence in space.
Sec. 1612. Study on leveraging diverse commercial satellite remote 
          sensing capabilities.
Sec. 1613. Annual report on Space Command and Control program.
Sec. 1614. Report on space debris.

  Subtitle B--Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-Related Activities

Sec. 1621. Redesignation of Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence 
          as Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security.
Sec. 1622. Modifications to ISR Integration Council and annual briefing 
          requirements.
Sec. 1623. Modification of annual authorization of appropriations for 
          National Flagship Language Initiative.
Sec. 1624. Improving the onboarding methodology for intelligence 
          personnel.
Sec. 1625. Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency activities on 
          facilitating access to local criminal records historical data.
Sec. 1626. Survey and report on alignment of intelligence collections 
          capabilities and activities with Department of Defense 
          requirements.
Sec. 1627. Reports on Consolidated Adjudication Facility of the Defense 
          Counterintelligence and Security Agency.
Sec. 1628. Report on the expanded purview of the Defense 
          Counterintelligence and Security Agency.
Sec. 1629. Termination of requirement for Department of Defense facility 
          access clearances for joint ventures composed of previously-
          cleared entities.

                 Subtitle C--Cyberspace-Related Matters

Sec. 1631. Matters relating to military operations in the information 
          environment.
Sec. 1632. Notification requirements for sensitive military cyber 
          operations.
Sec. 1633. Evaluation of cyber vulnerabilities of major weapon systems 
          of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1634. Quarterly assessments of the readiness of Cyber Mission 
          Forces.
Sec. 1635. Cyber posture review.
Sec. 1636. Modification of elements of assessment required for 
          termination of dual-hat arrangement for Commander of the 
          United States Cyber Command.
Sec. 1637. Modification of cyber scholarship program.
Sec. 1638. Tier 1 exercise of support to civil authorities for a cyber 
          incident.
Sec. 1639. Extension of the Cyberspace Solarium Commission.
Sec. 1640. Authority to use operation and maintenance funds for cyber 
          operations-peculiar capability development projects.
Sec. 1641. Role of Chief Information Officer in improving enterprise-
          wide cybersecurity.
Sec. 1642. Notification of delegation of authorities to the Secretary of 
          Defense for military operations in cyberspace.
Sec. 1643. Limitation of funding for Consolidated Afloat Networks and 
          Enterprise Services.
Sec. 1644. Annual military cyberspace operations report.
Sec. 1645. Annual report on cyber attacks and intrusions against the 
          Department of Defense by certain foreign entities.
Sec. 1646. Control and analysis of Department of Defense data stolen 
          through cyberspace.
Sec. 1647. Use of National Security Agency cybersecurity expertise to 
          support evaluation of commercial cybersecurity products.
Sec. 1648. Framework to enhance cybersecurity of the United States 
          defense industrial base.
Sec. 1649. Report on cybersecurity training programs.
Sec. 1650. National Security Presidential Memorandums relating to 
          Department of Defense operations in cyberspace.
Sec. 1651. Reorientation of Big Data Platform program.
Sec. 1652. Zero-based review of Department of Defense cyber and 
          information technology personnel.
Sec. 1653. Study on improving cyber career paths in the Navy.
Sec. 1654. Accreditation standards and processes for cybersecurity and 
          information technology products and services.
Sec. 1655. Study on future cyber warfighting capabilities of Department 
          of Defense.
Sec. 1656. Study to determine the optimal strategy for structuring and 
          manning elements of the Joint Force Headquarters-Cyber 
          Organizations, Joint Mission Operations Centers, and Cyber 
          Operations-Integrated Planning Elements.
Sec. 1657. Cyber governance structures and Principal Cyber Advisors on 
          military cyber force matters.
Sec. 1658. Designation of test networks for testing and accreditation of 
          cybersecurity products and services.
Sec. 1659. Consortia of universities to advise Secretary of Defense on 
          cybersecurity matters.
Sec. 1660. Joint assessment of Department of Defense cyber red team 
          capabilities, capacity, demand, and requirements.

                       Subtitle D--Nuclear Forces

Sec. 1661. Conforming amendment to Council on Oversight of the National 
          Leadership Command, Control, and Communications System.
Sec. 1662. Modification of authorities relating to nuclear command, 
          control, and communications system.
Sec. 1663. Briefings on meetings held by Nuclear Weapons Council.
Sec. 1664. Consideration of budget matters at meetings of Nuclear 
          Weapons Council.
Sec. 1665. Improvement to annual report on the modernization of the 
          nuclear weapons enterprise.
Sec. 1666. Expansion of officials required to conduct biennial 
          assessments of delivery platforms for nuclear weapons and 
          nuclear command and control system.
Sec. 1667. Extension of annual briefing on costs of forward-deploying 
          nuclear weapons in Europe.
Sec. 1668. Elimination of conventional requirement for long-range 
          standoff weapon.
Sec. 1669. Briefing on long-range standoff weapon and sea-launched 
          cruise missile.
Sec. 1670. Extension of prohibition on availability of funds for mobile 
          variant of ground-based strategic deterrent missile.
Sec. 1671. Reports on development of ground-based strategic deterrent 
          weapon.
Sec. 1672. Prohibition on reduction of the intercontinental ballistic 
          missiles of the United States.
Sec. 1673. Independent study on policy of no-first-use of nuclear 
          weapons.
Sec. 1674. Independent study on risks of nuclear terrorism and nuclear 
          war.
Sec. 1675. Report on military-to-military dialogue to reduce risks of 
          miscalculation leading to nuclear war.
Sec. 1676. Report on nuclear forces of the United States and near-peer 
          countries.
Sec. 1677. Report on operation of conventional forces of military 
          departments under employment or threat of employment of 
          nuclear weapons.
Sec. 1678. Report on operation of conventional forces of certain 
          combatant commands under employment or threat of employment of 
          nuclear weapons.
Sec. 1679. Briefings on plan for future-systems-level architecture of 
          nuclear command, control, and communications systems.
Sec. 1680. Sense of Congress on nuclear deterrence commitments of the 
          United States.

                  Subtitle E--Missile Defense Programs

Sec. 1681. National missile defense policy.
Sec. 1682. Development of space-based ballistic missile intercept layer.
Sec. 1683. Development of hypersonic and ballistic missile tracking 
          space sensor payload.
Sec. 1684. Modifications to required testing by Missile Defense Agency 
          of ground-based midcourse defense element of ballistic missile 
          defense system.
Sec. 1685. Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system and Israeli 
          cooperative missile defense program co-development and co-
          production.
Sec. 1686. Limitation on availability of funds for lower tier air and 
          missile defense sensor.
Sec. 1687. Plan for the redesigned kill vehicle replacement.
Sec. 1688. Organization, authorities, and billets of the Missile Defense 
          Agency.
Sec. 1689. Annual assessment of ballistic missile defense system.
Sec. 1690. Command and control, battle management, and communications 
          program.
Sec. 1691. Missile defense interceptor site in contiguous United States.
Sec. 1692. Independent study on impacts of missile defense development 
          and deployment.
Sec. 1693. Report and briefing on multi-volume kill capability.

                        Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 1694. Extension of authorization for protection of certain 
          facilities and assets from unmanned aircraft.
Sec. 1695. Repeal of requirement for commission on electromagnetic pulse 
          attacks and similar events.
Sec. 1696. Repeal of review requirement for ammonium perchlorate report.
Sec. 1697. Transferability of conventional prompt global strike weapon 
          system technologies to surface-launched platforms.
Sec. 1698. Prohibition on availability of funds for certain offensive 
          ground-launched ballistic or cruise missile systems.
Sec. 1699. Hard and deeply buried targets.

                      Subtitle A--Space Activities

SEC. 1601. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT TO ESTABLISH UNITED STATES SPACE 
COMMAND AS A SUBORDINATE UNIFIED COMMAND OF THE UNITED STATES STRATEGIC 
COMMAND.
    (a) In General.--Section 169 of title 10, United States Code, is 
repealed.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) The table of sections for chapter 6 of title 10, United 
    States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to section 
    169.
        (2) Section 2273a(d)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``The Commander of the United States Strategic 
    Command, acting through the United States Space Command,'' and 
    inserting ``The Commander of the United States Space Command, or, 
    if no such command exists, the Commander of the United States 
    Strategic Command,''.
SEC. 1602. COORDINATION OF MODERNIZATION EFFORTS RELATING TO MILITARY-
CODE CAPABLE GPS RECEIVER CARDS.
    Section 1610 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2111; 10 U.S.C. 
2281 note) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)(2), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting ``, including with respect to each program of the 
    Department that requires M-code capable receiver cards.''; and
        (2) in subsection (c), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting ``, and shall clarify the roles of the Chief Information 
    Officer and the Council on Oversight of the Department of Defense 
    Positioning, Navigation, and Timing Enterprise with respect to M-
    code modernization efforts.''.
SEC. 1603. DEMONSTRATION OF BACKUP AND COMPLEMENTARY POSITIONING, 
NAVIGATION, AND TIMING CAPABILITIES OF GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM.
    Effective on June 1, 2019, section 1606 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 
1725) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ``the date that is 18 
    months after the date of the enactment of this Act'' and inserting 
    ``December 31, 2020''; and
        (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``18 months after the date 
    of the enactment of this Act'' and inserting ``December 31, 2020''.
SEC. 1604. ANNUAL DETERMINATION ON PLAN ON FULL INTEGRATION AND 
EXPLOITATION OF OVERHEAD PERSISTENT INFRARED CAPABILITY.
    Section 1618(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2431 note) is amended by 
striking ``for a fiscal year'' and inserting ``for each of fiscal years 
2021 through 2028''.
SEC. 1605. SPACE-BASED ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING MISSION REQUIREMENTS.
    (a) Procurement of Modernized Pathfinder Program Satellite.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall procure a 
    modernized pathfinder program satellite that--
            (A) addresses space-based environmental monitoring mission 
        requirements;
            (B) reduces the risk that the Department of Defense 
        experiences a gap in meeting such requirements during the 
        period beginning January 1, 2023, and ending December 31, 2025; 
        and
            (C) is launched not later than January 1, 2023.
        (2) Type of satellite.--The satellite described in paragraph 
    (1) may be a free-flyer or a hosted payload satellite.
        (3) Plan.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit 
    to the appropriate congressional committees a plan to procure and 
    launch the satellite described in paragraph (1), including with 
    respect to--
            (A) the requirements for such satellite, including 
        operational requirements;
            (B) timelines for such procurement and launch;
            (C) costs for such procurement and launch; and
            (D) the launch plan.
        (4) Procedures.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall ensure 
    that the satellite described in paragraph (1) is procured using 
    full and open competition through the use of competitive 
    procedures.
        (5) Withholding of funds.--The amount equal to 10 percent of 
    the total amount authorized to be appropriated to the Office of the 
    Secretary of Air Force for the travel of persons under the 
    Operations and Maintenance, Defense-Wide account shall be withheld 
    from obligation or expenditure until the date on which a contract 
    is awarded for the procurement of the satellite described in 
    paragraph (1).
    (b) Weather System Satellite.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall 
ensure that the electro-optical/infrared weather system satellite--
        (1) meets space-based environmental monitoring mission 
    requirements;
        (2) is procured using full and open competition through the use 
    of competitive procedures; and
        (3) is launched not later than September 30, 2025.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the congressional defense committees; and
            (B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        House of Representatives and the Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the Senate.
        (2) The term ``space-based environmental monitoring mission 
    requirements'' means the national security requirements for cloud 
    characterization and theater weather imagery.
SEC. 1606. RESILIENT ENTERPRISE GROUND ARCHITECTURE.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
Secretary of the Air Force, to advance the security of the space assets 
of the Department of Defense, should--
        (1) expand on complementary efforts within the Air Force that 
    promote the adoption of a resilient enterprise ground architecture 
    that is responsive to new and changing threats and can rapidly 
    integrate new capabilities to make the warfighting force of the 
    United States more resilient in a contested battlespace; and
        (2) prioritize the swift transition of space ground 
    architecture to a common platform and leverage commercial 
    capabilities in concurrence with the 2015 intent memorandum of the 
    Commander of the Air Force Space Command.
    (b) Future Architecture.--The Secretary of Defense shall, to the 
extent practicable--
        (1) develop future satellite ground architectures of the 
    Department of Defense to be compatible with complementary 
    commercial systems that can support uplink and downlink 
    capabilities with dual-band spacecraft; and
        (2) emphasize that future ground architecture transition away 
    from stove-piped systems to a service-based platform that provides 
    members of the Armed Forces with flexible and adaptable 
    capabilities that--
            (A) use, as applicable, commercially available capabilities 
        and technologies for increased resiliency and cost savings; and
            (B) build commercial opportunity and integration across the 
        range of resilient space systems.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the future architecture 
described in subsection (b).
SEC. 1607. PROTOTYPE PROGRAM FOR MULTI-GLOBAL NAVIGATION SATELLITE 
SYSTEM RECEIVER DEVELOPMENT.
    (a) Prototype Multi-GNSS Program.--The Secretary of the Air Force 
shall carry out a program to prototype an M-code based, multi-global 
navigation satellite system receiver that is capable of receiving 
covered signals to increase the resilience and capability of military 
position, navigation, and timing equipment against threats to the 
Global Positioning System and to deter the likelihood of attack on the 
worldwide Global Positioning System by reducing the benefits of such an 
attack.
    (b) Elements.--In carrying out the program under subsection (a), 
the Secretary shall--
        (1) with respect to each covered signal that could be received 
    by the prototype receiver under such program, conduct an assessment 
    of the relative benefits and risks of using that signal, including 
    with respect to any existing or needed monitoring infrastructure 
    that would alert users of the Department of Defense of potentially 
    corrupted signal information, and the cyber risks and challenges of 
    incorporating such signals into a properly designed receiver;
        (2) ensure that monitoring systems are able to include any 
    monitoring network of the United States or allies of the United 
    States;
        (3) conduct an assessment of the benefits and risks, including 
    with respect to the compatibility of non-United States global 
    navigation satellite system signals with existing position, 
    navigation, and timing equipment of the United States, and the 
    extent to which the capability to receive such signals would impact 
    current receiver or antenna design; and
        (4) conduct an assessment of the desirability of establishing a 
    program for the development and deployment of the receiver system 
    described in subsection (a) in a manner that--
            (A) is a cooperative effort, coordinated with the Secretary 
        of State, between the United States and the allies of the 
        United States that may also have interest in funding a multi-
        global navigation satellite system and M-code program; and
            (B) the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
        Secretary of State, ensures that the United States has access 
        to sufficient insight into trusted signals of allied systems to 
        assure potential reliance by the United States on such signals.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in coordination with the Air 
Force GPS User Equipment Program office, shall provide to the 
congressional defense committees a briefing on a plan to carry out the 
program under subsection (a) that includes--
        (1) the estimated cost, including total cost and out-year 
    funding requirements for a program to develop and deploy the 
    receiver system described in subsection (a);
        (2) the schedule for such program;
        (3) a plan for how the results of the program could be 
    incorporated into future blocks of the Global Positioning System 
    military user equipment program; and
        (4) the recommendations and analysis contained in the study 
    sponsored by the Department of Defense conducted by the MITRE 
    Corporation on the risks, benefits, and approaches to adding multi-
    global navigation satellite system capabilities to military user 
    equipment.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 150 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report containing--
        (1) an explanation of how the Secretary intends to comply with 
    section 1609 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 10 U.S.C. 2281 note);
        (2) an outline of any potential cooperative efforts acting in 
    accordance with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, the 
    European Union, or Japan that would support such compliance;
        (3) an assessment of the potential to host, or incorporate 
    through software-defined payloads, Global Positioning System M-code 
    functionality onto allied global navigation satellite system 
    systems; and
        (4) an assessment of new or enhanced monitoring capabilities 
    that would be needed to incorporate global navigation satellite 
    system functionality into weapon systems of the Department.
    (e) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2020 for increment 2 of 
the acquisition of military Global Positioning System user equipment 
terminals, not more than 90 percent may be obligated or expended until 
the date on which the briefing has been provided under subsection (c) 
and the report has been submitted under subsection (d).
    (f) Waiver Authority for Trusted Signals Capabilities.--Section 
1609(a)(2)(B) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 10 U.S.C. 2281 note) is 
amended by striking ``such capability'' and inserting ``the capability 
to add multi-Global Navigation Satellite System signals to provide 
substantive military utility''.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``allied systems'' means--
            (A) the Galileo system of the European Union;
            (B) the QZSS system of Japan; and
            (C) upon designation by the Secretary of Defense, in 
        consultation with the Director of National Intelligence--
                (i) the NAVIC system of India; and
                (ii) any similarly associated wide area augmentation 
            systems.
        (2) The term ``covered signals''--
            (A) means global navigation satellite system signals from--
                (i) allied systems; and
                (ii) non-allied systems; and
            (B) includes both encrypted signals and open signals.
        (3) The term ``encrypted signals'' means global navigation 
    satellite system signals that incorporate encryption or other 
    internal methods to authenticate signal information.
        (4) The term ``M-code'' means, with respect to global 
    navigation satellite system signals, military code that provides 
    enhanced positioning, navigation, and timing capabilities and 
    improved resistance to existing and emerging threats, such as 
    jamming.
        (5) The term ``non-allied systems'' means--
            (A) the Russian GLONASS system; and
            (B) the Chinese Beidou system.
        (6) The term ``open signals'' means global navigation satellite 
    system that do not include encryption or other internal methods to 
    authenticate signal information.
SEC. 1608. COMMERCIAL SPACE SITUATIONAL AWARENESS CAPABILITIES.
    (a) Certification.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force, without 
delegation, shall certify to the congressional defense committees that 
the Air Force is using commercial space situational awareness services.
    (b) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2020 for the enterprise 
space battle management command and control, not more than 85 percent 
may be obligated or expended until the date on which the Secretary of 
the Air Force makes the certification under subsection (a).
    (c) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2020, the Secretary of the Air 
Force shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
using commercial space situational awareness services to fill the space 
situational awareness requirements that were not filled in the Joint 
Space Operations Center Mission Center. The report shall include the 
following:
        (1) A description of current domestic commercial capabilities 
    to detect and track space objects in low-Earth orbit below the 10 
    centimeter threshold of legacy systems.
        (2) A description of current domestic best-in-breed commercial 
    capabilities that can meet such requirements.
        (3) Estimates of the timelines, milestones, and funding 
    requirements to procure a near-term solution to meet such 
    requirements until the development programs of the Air Force are 
    projected to be operationally fielded.
    (d) Commercial Space Situational Awareness Services Defined.--In 
this section, the term ``commercial space situational awareness 
services'' means commercial space situational awareness processing 
software and data from commercial sensors to address warfighter 
requirements and fill gaps in current space situational capabilities of 
the Air Force.
SEC. 1609. PROGRAM TO ENHANCE AND IMPROVE LAUNCH SUPPORT AND 
INFRASTRUCTURE.
    (a) In General.--In support of the policy described in section 
2273(a) of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of Defense, in 
coordination with the Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
Administration, may carry out a program to enhance infrastructure and 
improve support activities for the processing and launch of Department 
of Defense small-class and medium-class payloads.
    (b) Program.--The program under subsection (a) shall include 
improvements to operations at launch ranges and Federal Aviation 
Administration-licensed spaceports that are consistent with, and 
necessary to permit, the use of such launch ranges and spaceports by 
the Department.
    (c) Consultation.--In carrying out the program under subsection 
(a), the Secretary may consult with current and anticipated users of 
launch ranges and Federal Aviation Administration-licensed spaceports, 
including the Space Rapid Capabilities Office.
    (d) Cooperation.--In carrying out the program under subsection (a), 
the Secretary may enter into a contract or agreement under section 2276 
of title 10, United States Code.
    (e) Report.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a report describing a plan for the program under 
subsection (a).
    (f) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees;
        (2) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and 
    the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
        (3) the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, the 
    Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and the Permanent 
    Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1610. PREPARATION TO IMPLEMENT PLAN FOR USE OF ALLIED LAUNCH 
VEHICLES.
    (a) Preparation.--The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
the Director of National Intelligence, shall take actions necessary to 
prepare to implement the plan developed pursuant to section 1603 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 
114-328; 130 Stat. 2584) regarding using allied launch vehicles to meet 
the requirements for achieving the policy relating to assured access to 
space set forth in section 2273 of title 10, United States Code.
    (b) Actions Required.--In carrying out subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall--
        (1) identify the satellites of the United States that would be 
    appropriate to be launched on an allied launch vehicle;
        (2) assess the relevant provisions of Federal law, regulations, 
    and policies governing the launch of national security satellites 
    and determine whether any legislative, regulatory, or policy 
    actions (including with respect to waivers) would be necessary to 
    allow for the launch of a national security satellite on an allied 
    launch vehicle; and
        (3) address any certification requirements necessary for such 
    use of allied launch vehicles and the estimated cost, schedule, and 
    actions necessary to certify allied launch vehicles for such use.
    (c) Submission to Congress.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
the appropriate congressional committees a report on preparing to 
implement the plan described in subsection (a), including information 
regarding each action required by paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of 
subsection (b).
    (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees; and
        (2) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
    of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
    Senate.
SEC. 1611. INDEPENDENT STUDY ON PLAN FOR DETERRENCE IN SPACE.
    (a) Independent Study.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter 
    into a contract with a federally funded research and development 
    center or other independent entity to conduct a study on deterrence 
    in space.
        (2) Matters included.--The study under paragraph (1) shall 
    include, at a minimum, the following:
            (A) An assessment of the existing range of major studies 
        and writings on space deterrence and a comprehensive 
        comparative analysis of the conclusions of such studies and 
        writings.
            (B) An examination, using appropriate analytical tools, of 
        the approaches proposed by such studies and writings with 
        respect to creating conditions of deterrence suitable for use 
        in the space domain, including, at a minimum, an assessment of 
        all aspects of deterrence in space, including varying 
        classification, strategies to deny benefit or impose cost, and 
        space mission assurance (including resilience, active defense, 
        and reconstitution).
            (C) A determination, made either by extending such studies 
        and writings or through new analysis, of a holistic and 
        comprehensive theory of deterrence in space appropriate for use 
        in defense planning.
            (D) An evaluation of existing policies, programs, and plans 
        of the Department of Defense to provide an assessment of the 
        likely effectiveness of those policies, programs, and plans to 
        achieve effective space deterrence.
    (b) Assessment by Defense Policy Board.--Not later than 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Defense Policy Board 
shall submit to the Secretary of Defense an assessment of the study 
under subsection (a)(1), including, at a minimum--
        (1) a determination of the soundness of the study;
        (2) a description of any disagreements the Board has with the 
    conclusions of such study, including recommended changes or 
    clarifications to such conclusions the Board determines 
    appropriate; and
        (3) changes to the policies, programs, and plans of the 
    Department of Defense that the Board recommends based on such study 
    and the changes and clarifications described in paragraph (2).
    (c) Report.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
Representatives, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a 
report that contains the following:
        (1) The study under subsection (a)(1), without change.
        (2) The assessment under subsection (b), without change.
        (3) Based on such study and assessment, a description of any 
    changes to the policies, programs, and plans of the Department of 
    Defense that the Secretary recommends to enhance deterrence in 
    space, including with respect to--
            (A) considerations and decision on reducing the 
        opportunities and incentives for adversaries to attack space 
        systems of the United States or allies of the United States;
            (B) new architectures, including proliferated systems, 
        hosted payloads, nontraditional orbits, and reconstitution 
        among others;
            (C) appropriate uses of partnering with both commercial 
        entities and allies to improve deterrence in space;
            (D) necessary capabilities to enhance the protection of 
        space systems to achieve improved deterrence;
            (E) bilateral, multilateral, and unilateral measures, 
        including confidence-building measures, that could be taken to 
        reduce the risk of miscalculation that would lead to an attack 
        in space;
            (F) policies and capability requirements with regard to 
        attribution of an attack in space;
            (G) policies with regard to retaliatory measures either in 
        space or on the ground;
            (H) authorities with regard to decisions and actions to 
        defend assets of the United States in space; and
            (I) changes to current war plans, routine operations 
        (including information sharing), and demonstration and test 
        procedures that could enhance the capability of the United 
        States to signal the intentions and capabilities of the United 
        States in an effective manner.
    (d) Briefing.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall provide to the congressional 
defense committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
Representatives, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a 
briefing on the study under subsection (a)(1) and the assessment under 
subsection (b).
SEC. 1612. STUDY ON LEVERAGING DIVERSE COMMERCIAL SATELLITE REMOTE 
SENSING CAPABILITIES.
    (a) Study.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the 
Director of National Intelligence, shall conduct a study on the status 
of the transition from the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency to 
the National Reconnaissance Office of the leadership role in acquiring 
commercial satellite remote sensing data on behalf of the Department of 
Defense and the intelligence community (as defined in section 3 of the 
National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003)).
    (b) Elements.--In conducting the study under subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall study--
        (1) commercial geospatial intelligence requirements for the 
    National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency and the combatant commands;
        (2) plans of the National Reconnaissance Office to meet the 
    requirements specified in paragraph (1) through the acquisition of 
    all levels of resolution data from multiple commercial providers; 
    and
        (3) plans of the National Reconnaissance Office to further 
    develop such programs with commercial companies to continue to 
    support, while also expanding, adoption by the geospatial 
    intelligence user community of the Department of Defense.
    (c) Submission.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of 
the House of Representatives, and the Select Committee on Intelligence 
of the Senate a report on the study conducted under subsection (a).
SEC. 1613. ANNUAL REPORT ON SPACE COMMAND AND CONTROL PROGRAM.
    (a) Reports Required.--
        (1) Initial report.--Not later than May 1, 2020, the Secretary 
    of the Air Force shall submit to the Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition and Sustainment, the congressional defense committees, 
    and the Comptroller General of the United States, a report on the 
    Space Command and Control program for fiscal year 2021.
        (2) Subsequent reports.--For each of fiscal years 2022 through 
    2025, concurrent with the submittal to Congress of the budget of 
    the Department of Defense with the budget of the President for the 
    subsequent fiscal year under section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
    States Code, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the 
    Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, the 
    congressional defense committees, and the Comptroller General of 
    the United States, an annual report on the Space Command and 
    Control program.
    (b) Matters to Be Included.--Each report required by subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
        (1) A description of any modification to the metrics 
    established by the Secretary in the acquisition strategy for the 
    program.
        (2) The short-term objectives for the subsequent fiscal year.
        (3) For the preceding fiscal year--
            (A) a description of--
                (i) the ongoing, achieved, and deferred objectives;
                (ii) the challenges encountered and the lessons 
            learned;
                (iii) the modifications made or planned so as to 
            incorporate such lessons learned into subsequent efforts to 
            address challenges; and
                (iv) the cost, schedule, and performance effects of 
            such modifications; and
            (B) a full survey of combatant command requirements, 
        including Commanders' Integrated Priorities Lists, and impacts 
        with respect to the program.
        (4) A description of potential future combatant command 
    requirements being considered with respect to the program.
    (c) Review of Reports and Briefing by Comptroller General.--With 
respect to each report submitted under this section, the Comptroller 
General shall review and provide to the congressional defense 
committees a briefing on a date mutually agreed on by the Comptroller 
General and the congressional defense committees.
SEC. 1614. REPORT ON SPACE DEBRIS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 240 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees a report on the risks posed by 
man-made space debris in low-Earth orbit, including--
        (1) recommendations with respect to the remediation of such 
    risks; and
        (2) outlines of plans to reduce the incidence of such space 
    debris.
    (b) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.

  Subtitle B--Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-Related Activities

SEC. 1621. REDESIGNATION OF UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR INTELLIGENCE 
AS UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY.
    (a) Redesignation of Under Secretary.--
        (1) In general.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Intelligence is hereby redesignated as the Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Intelligence and Security.
        (2) Service of incumbent in position.--The individual serving 
    as Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence as of the date of 
    the enactment of this Act may serve as Under Secretary of Defense 
    for Intelligence and Security commencing as of that date without 
    further appointment under section 137 of title 10, United States 
    Code (as amended by subsection (c)(1)(A)(ii)).
        (3) Reference.--Any reference in any law, regulation, map, 
    document, paper, or other record of the United States to the Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Intelligence shall be deemed to be a 
    reference to the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and 
    Security.
    (b) Redesignation of Related Deputy Under Secretary.--
        (1) In general.--The Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Intelligence is hereby redesignated as the Deputy Under Secretary 
    of Defense for Intelligence and Security.
        (2) Service of incumbent in position.--The individual serving 
    as Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence as of the 
    date of the enactment of this Act may serve as Deputy Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security commencing as of 
    that date without further appointment under section 137a of title 
    10, United States Code (as amended by subsection (c)(1)(B)).
        (3) Reference.--Any reference in any law, regulation, map, 
    document, paper, or other record of the United States to the Deputy 
    Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence shall be deemed to be a 
    reference to the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence 
    and Security.
    (c) Rule of Construction Regarding Effects of Redesignation.--
Nothing in this section shall be construed to modify or expand the 
authorities, resources, responsibilities, roles, or missions of the 
Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security, as 
redesignated by this section.
    (d) Protection of Privacy and Civil Liberties.--Section 137 of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
    subsection (c):
    ``(c) The protection of privacy and civil liberties in accordance 
with Federal law and the regulations and directives of the Department 
of Defense shall be a top priority for the Under Secretary of Defense 
for Intelligence and Security.''.
    (e) Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) Title 10.--Title 10, United States Code, is amended as 
    follows:
            (A) In each provision as follows, by striking ``Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Intelligence'' and inserting ``Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security'':
                (i) Section 131(b)(3)(F).
                (ii) Section 137, each place it appears.
                (iii) Section 139a(d)(6).
                (iv) Section 139b(c)(2)(E).
                (v) Section 181(d)(1)(B).
                (vi) Section 393(b)(2)(C).
                (vii) Section 426, each place it appears.
                (viii) Section 430(a).
            (B) In section 137a(c)(6), by striking ``Deputy Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Intelligence'' and inserting ``Deputy 
        Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security''.
            (C) The heading of section 137 is amended to read as 
        follows:
``Sec. 137. Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security''.
            (D) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 4 is 
        amended by striking the item relating to section 137 and 
        inserting the following new item:

``137. Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security.''.

        (2) Title 5.--Title 5, United States Code, is amended as 
    follows:
            (A) In section 5314, by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Intelligence'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Intelligence and Security''.
            (B) In section 5315, by striking ``Deputy Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Intelligence'' and inserting ``Deputy Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security''.
SEC. 1622. MODIFICATIONS TO ISR INTEGRATION COUNCIL AND ANNUAL BRIEFING 
REQUIREMENTS.
    (a) ISR Integration Council.--Subsection (a) of section 426 of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) ISR Integration Council.--(1) The Under Secretary of Defense 
for Intelligence and Security shall establish an Intelligence, 
Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Integration Council--
        ``(A) to assist the Secretary of Defense in carrying out the 
    responsibilities of the Secretary under section 105(a) of the 
    National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3038(a));
        ``(B) to assist the Under Secretary with respect to matters 
    relating to--
            ``(i) integration of intelligence and counterintelligence 
        capabilities and activities under section 137(b) of this title 
        of the military departments, intelligence agencies of the 
        Department of Defense, and relevant combatant commands; and
            ``(ii) coordination of related developmental activities of 
        such departments, agencies, and combatant commands; and
        ``(C) to otherwise provide a means to facilitate such 
    integration and coordination.
    ``(2) The Council shall be composed of--
        ``(A) the Under Secretary, who shall chair the Council;
        ``(B) the directors of the intelligence agencies of the 
    Department of Defense;
        ``(C) the senior intelligence officers of the armed forces and 
    the regional and functional combatant commands;
        ``(D) the Director for Intelligence of the Joint Chiefs of 
    Staff; and
        ``(E) the Director for Operations of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
    ``(3) The Under Secretary shall invite the participation of the 
Director of National Intelligence (or a representative of the Director) 
in the proceedings of the Council.
    ``(4) The Under Secretary may designate additional participants to 
attend the proceedings of the Council, as the Under Secretary 
determines appropriate.''.
    (b) Annual Briefings.--Such section is further amended by striking 
subsections (b) and (c) and inserting the following new subsection (b):
    ``(b) Annual Briefings on the Intelligence and Counterintelligence 
Requirements of the Combatant Commands.--(1) The Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff shall provide to the congressional defense committees 
and the congressional intelligence committees a briefing on the 
following:
        ``(A) The intelligence and counterintelligence requirements, by 
    specific intelligence capability type, of each of the relevant 
    combatant commands.
        ``(B) For the year preceding the year in which the briefing is 
    provided, the fulfillment rate for each of the relevant combatant 
    commands of the validated intelligence and counterintelligence 
    requirements, by specific intelligence capability type, of such 
    combatant command.
        ``(C) A risk analysis identifying the critical gaps and 
    shortfalls in efforts to address operational and strategic 
    requirements of the Department of Defense that would result from 
    the failure to fulfill the validated intelligence and 
    counterintelligence requirements of the relevant combatant 
    commands.
        ``(D) A mitigation plan to balance and offset the gaps and 
    shortfalls identified under subparagraph (C), including with 
    respect to spaceborne, airborne, ground, maritime, and cyber 
    intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance capabilities.
        ``(E) For the year preceding the year in which the briefing is 
    provided--
            ``(i) the number of intelligence and counterintelligence 
        requests of each commander of a relevant combatant command 
        determined by the Joint Chiefs of Staff to be a validated 
        requirement, and the total of capacity of such requests 
        provided to each such commander;
            ``(ii) with respect to such validated requirements--
                ``(I) the quantity of intelligence and 
            counterintelligence capabilities or activities, by specific 
            intelligence capability type, that the Joint Chiefs of 
            Staff requested each military department to provide; and
                ``(II) the total of capacity of such requests so 
            provided by each such military department; and
            ``(iii) a qualitative assessment of the alignment of 
        intelligence and counterintelligence capabilities and 
        activities with the program of analysis for each combat support 
        agency and intelligence center of a military service that is 
        part of--
                ``(I) the Defense Intelligence Enterprise; and
                ``(II) the intelligence community.
    ``(2) The Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security 
shall provide to the congressional defense committees and the 
congressional intelligence committees a briefing on short-, mid-, and 
long-term strategies to address the validated intelligence and 
counterintelligence requirements of the relevant combatant commands, 
including with respect to spaceborne, airborne, ground, maritime, and 
cyber intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance capabilities.
    ``(3) The briefings required by paragraphs (1) and (2) shall be 
provided at the same time that the President's budget is submitted 
pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31 for each of fiscal years 2021 
through 2025.
    ``(4) In this subsection:
        ``(A) The term `congressional intelligence committees' has the 
    meaning given that term in section 3 of the National Security Act 
    of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
        ``(B) The term `Defense Intelligence Enterprise' means the 
    organizations, infrastructure, and measures, including policies, 
    processes, procedures, and products, of the intelligence, 
    counterintelligence, and security components of each of the 
    following:
            ``(i) The Department of Defense.
            ``(ii) The Joint Staff.
            ``(iii) The combatant commands.
            ``(iv) The military departments.
            ``(v) Other elements of the Department of Defense that 
        perform national intelligence, defense intelligence, 
        intelligence-related, counterintelligence, or security 
        functions.
        ``(C) The term `fulfillment rate' means the percentage of 
    combatant command intelligence and counterintelligence requirements 
    satisfied by available, acquired, or realigned intelligence and 
    counterintelligence capabilities or activities.
        ``(D) The term `intelligence community' has the meaning given 
    that term in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
    U.S.C. 3003).''.
SEC. 1623. MODIFICATION OF ANNUAL AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR 
NATIONAL FLAGSHIP LANGUAGE INITIATIVE.
    Section 811(a) of the Fair Chance Act (50 U.S.C. 1911(a)) is 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``fiscal year 2003'' and inserting ``fiscal 
    year 2020''; and
        (2) by striking ``$10,000,000'' and inserting ``$16,000,000''.
SEC. 1624. IMPROVING THE ONBOARDING METHODOLOGY FOR INTELLIGENCE 
PERSONNEL.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense and the Director of 
National Intelligence shall, consistent with Department of Defense 
Instruction 1400.25, as in effect on the day before the date of the 
enactment of this Act--
        (1) not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
    this Act, submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report 
    that outlines a common methodology for measuring onboarding in 
    elements of the intelligence community, including human resources 
    and security processes;
        (2) not later than one year after the date of the enactment of 
    this Act, issue metrics for assessing key phases in the onboarding 
    described in paragraph (1) for which results will be reported by 
    the date that is 90 days after the date of such issuance;
        (3) not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
    this Act, submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report 
    on collaboration among elements of the intelligence community on 
    their onboarding processes;
        (4) not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
    this Act, submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report 
    on employment of automated mechanisms in elements of the 
    intelligence community, including for tracking personnel as they 
    pass through each phase of the onboarding process; and
        (5) not later than December 31, 2020, distribute surveys to 
    human resources offices and applicants about their experiences with 
    the onboarding process in elements of the intelligence community.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (A) the Select Committee on Intelligence and the Committee 
        on Armed Services of the Senate; and
            (B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the 
        Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.
        (2) The term ``intelligence community'' has the meaning given 
    such term in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
    U.S.C. 3003).
SEC. 1625. DEFENSE COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY AGENCY ACTIVITIES 
ON FACILITATING ACCESS TO LOCAL CRIMINAL RECORDS HISTORICAL DATA.
    (a) Activity Authorized.--Subject to subsection (c), the Director 
of the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency may carry out a 
set of activities to reduce the time and cost of accessing State, 
local, and tribal law enforcement records for the background 
investigations required for current and prospective Federal Government 
employees and contractors.
    (b) Activities Characterized.--The activities carried out under 
subsection (a) shall include only that training, education, and direct 
assistance to State, local, and tribal communities needed for the 
purpose of streamlining access to historical criminal record data.
    (c) Limitations.--
        (1) Commencement of activities.--The Director may not commence 
    carrying out any activities under subsection (a) until the date 
    that is 90 days after the date on which the Director submits the 
    report required by subsection (d)(1).
        (2) Legal and reporting obligations.--The Director shall ensure 
    that no activity carried out under subsection (a) obligates a 
    State, local, or tribal entity to any additional legal or reporting 
    obligation to the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency.
        (3) Scope.--No activity may be carried out under subsection (a) 
    that applies to any matter outside the limited purpose of 
    conducting background investigations for current and prospective 
    Federal Government employees and contractors.
        (4) Consistency with access provided.--The Director shall 
    ensure that the activities carried out under subsection (a) are 
    carried out in a manner that is consistent with the access provided 
    by Federal law enforcement entities to the Defense 
    Counterintelligence and Security Agency.
    (d) Reports.--
        (1) Initial report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees, the Select Committee on 
    Intelligence of the Senate, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
    Intelligence of the House of Representatives a report that details 
    a concept of operation for the set of activities authorized by 
    subsection (a).
        (2) Annual reports.--Not later than one year after the date on 
    which the Director submits a report pursuant to paragraph (1) and 
    not less frequently than once each year thereafter, the Director 
    shall submit to the congressional defense committees, the Select 
    Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, and the Permanent Select 
    Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives a 
    detailed report on the activities carried out by the Director under 
    subsection (a).
SEC. 1626. SURVEY AND REPORT ON ALIGNMENT OF INTELLIGENCE COLLECTIONS 
CAPABILITIES AND ACTIVITIES WITH DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE REQUIREMENTS.
    (a) Survey and Review.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Intelligence and Security, in coordination with the Chairman of the 
    Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Director of National Intelligence, 
    shall--
            (A) review the organization, posture, current and planned 
        investments, and processes of the intelligence collections 
        capabilities and activities, for the purpose of assessing the 
        sufficiency, integration, and interoperability of such 
        capabilities and activities to support the current and future 
        requirements of the Department of Defense; and
            (B) conduct a survey of each geographic and functional 
        combatant command, with respect to intelligence collections 
        capabilities and activities, to assess--
                (i) the current state of the support of such 
            capabilities and activities to military operations;
                (ii) whether the posture of such capabilities and 
            activities is sufficient to address the requirements of the 
            Department of Defense;
                (iii) the extent to which such capabilities and 
            activities address gaps and deficiencies with respect to 
            the operational requirements of the Global Campaign Plans, 
            as identified in the most recent readiness reviews 
            conducted by the Joint Staff; and
                (iv) whether current and planned investments in such 
            capabilities and activities are sufficient to address near-
            , mid-, and long-term spaceborne, airborne, terrestrial, 
            and human collection capability requirements.
        (2) Elements.--The survey and review under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) A comprehensive assessment of intelligence collections 
        capabilities and activities, and whether such capabilities and 
        activities--
                (i) are appropriately postured and sufficiently 
            resourced to meet current and future requirements of the 
            Department of Defense;
                (ii) are appropriately balanced to address operational 
            and strategic defense intelligence requirements; and
                (iii) are sufficiently integrated and interoperable 
            between activities of the Military Intelligence Program and 
            the National Intelligence Program to respond to emerging 
            requirements of the Department of Defense.
            (B) With respect to each geographic and functional 
        combatant command--
                (i) information on the gaps and deficiencies, by 
            specific intelligence capability type, described in 
            paragraph (1)(B)(iii);
                (ii) a review of the alignment of such gaps and 
            deficiencies with the intelligence, surveillance, and 
            reconnaissance submissions to the integrated priorities 
            list for the period beginning with the completion of the 
            most recent readiness reviews conducted by the Joint Staff 
            and ending on the date of the commencement of the survey 
            and review under subsection (a); and
                (iii) detailed information on the allocation and 
            realignment of intelligence collections capabilities and 
            activities to address--

                    (I) such gaps and deficiencies; and
                    (II) such intelligence, surveillance, and 
                reconnaissance submissions.

    (b) Report.--
        (1) Submission.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Intelligence and Security shall submit to the appropriate 
    congressional committees a report on the findings of the Under 
    Secretary with respect to the survey and review under subsection 
    (a)(1).
        (2) Content.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include--
            (A) an evaluation of--
                (i) the organization, posture, current and planned 
            investments, and processes of the intelligence collections 
            capabilities and activities, including the extent to which 
            such capabilities and activities enable the geographic and 
            functional combatant commands to meet the operational and 
            strategic requirements of the Department of Defense;
                (ii) the use or planned use by each geographic and 
            functional combatant command of intelligence collections 
            capabilities and activities available to such command to 
            address operational and strategic requirements of the 
            Department of Defense;
                (iii) the gaps and deficiencies described in subsection 
            (a)(1)(B)(iii), if any, that prohibit each geographic and 
            functional combatant command from the most effective use of 
            the intelligence collections capabilities and activities to 
            address priority requirements of the Department of Defense;
                (iv) the accepted risk by the Secretary of Defense from 
            the prioritization of certain Department of Defense 
            requirements with respect to the allocation of intelligence 
            collections capabilities and activities; and
                (v) the alignment and responsiveness of intelligence 
            collections capabilities and activities with respect to the 
            planning requirements for the Program of Analysis of each 
            combat support agency that is part of--

                    (I) the Defense Intelligence Enterprise; and
                    (II) the intelligence community; and

            (B) recommendations, if any, to improve the sufficiency, 
        responsiveness, and interoperability of intelligence 
        collections capabilities and activities to fulfill the 
        operational and strategic requirements of the Department of 
        Defense.
        (3) Form.--The report under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in 
    unclassified form without any designation relating to dissemination 
    control, but may contain a classified annex.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the congressional defense committees; and
            (B) the congressional intelligence committees.
        (2) The term ``combat support agency'' has the meaning given 
    that term in section 193(f) of title 10, United States Code.
        (3) The term ``Defense Intelligence Enterprise'' has the 
    meaning given that term in section 1633(c)(2) of the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
    130 Stat. 2600).
        (4) The term ``intelligence collections capabilities and 
    activities'' means the totality of intelligence collections systems 
    and processes which enable the tasking, processing, exploitation, 
    and dissemination capabilities, capacity, and activities of the 
    Defense Intelligence Enterprise.
        (5) The term ``intelligence community'' has the meaning given 
    that term in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
    U.S.C. 3003).
        (6) The term ``congressional intelligence committees'' has the 
    meaning given that term in section 3 of the National Security Act 
    of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
SEC. 1627. REPORTS ON CONSOLIDATED ADJUDICATION FACILITY OF THE DEFENSE 
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY AGENCY.
    (a) Reports.--On a semiannual basis during the period beginning on 
the date of the enactment of this Act and ending on the date specified 
in subsection (b), and annually thereafter, the Director of the Defense 
Counterintelligence and Security Agency shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the processes in place for 
adjudicating security clearances and the progress made to address the 
backlog of security clearance applications, including--
        (1) metrics used by the Director to evaluate the inventory and 
    timeliness of adjudicating security clearance cases; and
        (2) details on the resources used by the Director in carrying 
    out the security clearance mission of the Consolidated Adjudication 
    Facility.
    (b) Determination and Briefing.--Upon the date on which the 
Director of the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency 
determines both that the backlog of security clearance adjudications 
has been substantially eliminated and that the timeline to conduct 
background investigations reflects the type of investigation being 
conducted and the level of clearance required, the Director shall--
        (1) notify the congressional defense committees of such 
    determination; and
        (2) provide to such committees a briefing on the progress made 
    by the Director with respect to security clearance adjudications.
SEC. 1628. REPORT ON THE EXPANDED PURVIEW OF THE DEFENSE 
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY AGENCY.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
Congress a report on the Defense Counterintelligence and Security 
Agency.
    (b) Contents.--The report submitted under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        (1) Identification of the resources and authorities appropriate 
    for the inspector general for the expanded purview of the Defense 
    Counterintelligence and Security Agency.
        (2) Identification of the resources and authorities needed to 
    perform the civil liberties and privacy officer function of the 
    Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency.
        (3) An assessment of the security protocols in effect for 
    personally identifiable information held by the Defense 
    Counterintelligence and Security Agency.
        (4) An assessment of the governance structure of the Defense 
    Counterintelligence and Security Agency as it relates to the 
    Department of Defense, including with respect to status, 
    authorities, and leadership.
        (5) An assessment of the governance structure of the Defense 
    Counterintelligence and Security Agency as it relates to 
    interagency partners, including the Office of Management and 
    Budget, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, and 
    the Office of Personnel Management.
        (6) The methodology the Defense Counterintelligence and 
    Security Agency will prioritize requests for background 
    investigation requests from government agencies and industry.
SEC. 1629. TERMINATION OF REQUIREMENT FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
FACILITY ACCESS CLEARANCES FOR JOINT VENTURES COMPOSED OF PREVIOUSLY-
CLEARED ENTITIES.
    A clearance for access to a Department of Defense installation or 
facility may not be required for a joint venture if that joint venture 
is composed entirely of entities that are currently cleared for access 
to such installation or facility.

                 Subtitle C--Cyberspace-Related Matters

SEC. 1631. MATTERS RELATING TO MILITARY OPERATIONS IN THE INFORMATION 
ENVIRONMENT.
    (a) Principal Information Operations Advisor.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 19 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 397. Principal Information Operations Advisor
    ``(a) Designation.--Not later than 30 days after the enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall designate, from among 
officials appointed to a position in the Department of Defense by and 
with the advice and consent of the Senate, a Principal Information 
Operations Advisor to act as the principal advisor to the Secretary on 
all aspects of information operations conducted by the Department.
    ``(b) Responsibilities.--The Principal Information Operations 
Advisor shall have the following responsibilities:
        ``(1) Oversight of policy, strategy, planning, resource 
    management, operational considerations, personnel, and technology 
    development across all the elements of information operations of 
    the Department.
        ``(2) Overall integration and supervision of the deterrence of, 
    conduct of, and defense against information operations.
        ``(3) Promulgation of policies to ensure adequate coordination 
    and deconfliction with the Department of State, the intelligence 
    community (as such term is defined in section 3 of the National 
    Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003)), and other relevant agencies 
    and departments of the Federal Government.
        ``(4) Coordination with the head of the Global Engagement 
    Center to support the purpose of the Center (as set forth by 
    section 1287(a)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 22 U.S.C. 2656 note)) and 
    liaison with the Center and other relevant Federal Government 
    entities to support such purpose.
        ``(5) Establishing and supervising a rigorous risk management 
    process to mitigate the risk of potential exposure of United States 
    Persons to information intended exclusively for foreign audiences.
        ``(6) Promulgation of standards for the attribution or public 
    acknowledgment, if any, of operations in the information 
    environment.
        ``(7) Development of guidance for, and promotion of, the 
    capability of the Department to liaison with the private sector and 
    academia on matters relating to the influence activities of malign 
    actors.
        ``(8) Such other matters relating to information operations as 
    the Secretary shall specify for purposes of this subsection.''.
        (2) Clerical amendments.--
            (A) Chapter 19.--
                (i) Chapter heading.--The heading of chapter 19 of such 
            title is amended to read as follows:

       ``CHAPTER 19--CYBER AND INFORMATION OPERATIONS MATTERS''.

                (ii) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the 
            beginning of chapter 19 of such title is amended by 
            inserting at the end the following new item:

``397. Principal Information Operations Advisor.''.

            (B) Table of chapters.--The table of chapters for part I of 
        subtitle A of such title is amended by striking the item 
        relating to chapter 19 and inserting the following new item:

``19. Cyber and Information Operations Matters....................391''.

    (b) Affirming the Authority of the Secretary of Defense to Conduct 
Military Operations in the Information Environment.--(1) Congress 
affirms that the Secretary of Defense is authorized to conduct military 
operations, including clandestine operations, in the information 
environment to defend the United States, allies of the United States, 
and interests of the United States, including in response to malicious 
influence activities carried out against the United States or a United 
States person by a foreign power.
    (2) The military operations referred to in paragraph (1), when 
appropriately authorized include the conduct of military operations 
short of hostilities and in areas outside of areas of active 
hostilities for the purpose of preparation of the environment, 
influence, force protection, and deterrence of hostilities.
    (c) Treatment of Clandestine Military Operations in the Information 
Environment as Traditional Military Activities.--A clandestine military 
operation in the information environment shall be considered a 
traditional military activity for the purposes of section 503(e)(2) of 
the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3093(e)(2)).
    (d) Quarterly Information Operations Briefings.--(1) Not less 
frequently than once each quarter, the Secretary of Defense shall 
provide the congressional defense committees a briefing on significant 
military operations, including all clandestine operations in the 
information environment, carried out by the Department of Defense 
during the immediately preceding quarter.
    (2) Each briefing under paragraph (1) shall include, with respect 
to the military operations in the information environment described in 
such paragraph, the following:
        (A) An update, disaggregated by geographic and functional 
    command, that describes the operations carried out by the commands.
        (B) An overview of authorities and legal issues applicable to 
    the operations, including any relevant legal limitations.
        (C) An outline of any interagency activities and initiatives 
    relating to the operations.
        (D) Such other matters as the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
to limit, expand, or otherwise alter the authority of the Secretary to 
conduct military operations, including clandestine operations, in the 
information environment, to authorize specific military operations, or 
to limit, expand, or otherwise alter or otherwise affect the War Powers 
Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.) or an authorization for use of 
military force that was in effect on the day before the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (f) Cross-functional Team.--
        (1) Establishment.--The Principal Information Operations 
    Advisor shall integrate the expertise in all elements of 
    information operations and perspectives of appropriate 
    organizations within the Office of the Secretary of Defense, Joint 
    Staff, military departments, Defense Agencies, and combatant 
    commands by establishing and maintaining a full-time cross-
    functional team composed of subject-matter experts selected from 
    those organizations.
        (2) Selection and organization.--The cross-functional team 
    established under paragraph (1) shall be selected, organized, and 
    managed in a manner consistent with section 911 of the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
    10 U.S.C. 111 note).
    (g) Strategy and Posture Review.--
        (1) Strategy and posture review required.--Not later than 270 
    days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
    Defense, acting through the Principal Information Operations 
    Advisor under section 397 of title 10, United States Code (as added 
    by subsection (a)) and the cross-functional team established under 
    subsection (f)(1), shall--
            (A) develop or update, as appropriate, a strategy for 
        operations in the information environment, including how such 
        operations will be synchronized across the Department of 
        Defense and the global, regional, and functional interests of 
        the combatant commands;
            (B) conduct an information operations posture review, 
        including an analysis of capability gaps that inhibit the 
        Department's ability to successfully execute the strategy 
        developed or updated pursuant to subparagraph (A);
            (C) designate Information Operations Force Providers and 
        Information Operations Joint Force Trainers for the Department 
        of Defense;
            (D) develop and persistently manage a joint lexicon for 
        terms related to information operations, including 
        ``information operations'', ``information environment'', 
        ``operations in the information environment'', and 
        ``information related capabilities''; and
            (E) determine the collective set of combat capabilities 
        that will be treated as part of operations in the information 
        environment, including cyber warfare, space warfare, military 
        information support operations, electronic warfare, public 
        affairs, and civil affairs.
        (2) Coordination on certain cyber matters.--For any matters in 
    the strategy and posture review under paragraph (1) that involve or 
    relate to Department of Defense cyber capabilities, the Principal 
    Information Operations Advisor shall fully collaborate with the 
    Principal Cyber Advisor to the Secretary of Defense.
        (3) Elements.--At a minimum, the strategy developed or updated 
    pursuant to paragraph (1)(A) shall include the following:
            (A) The establishment of lines of effort, objectives, and 
        tasks that are necessary to implement such strategy and 
        eliminate the capability gaps identified under paragraph 
        (1)(B).
            (B) In partnership with the Principal Cyber Advisor to the 
        Secretary of Defense and in coordination with any other 
        component or Department of Defense entity as selected by the 
        Secretary of Defense, an evaluation of any organizational 
        changes that may be required within the Office of the Secretary 
        of Defense, including potential changes to Under Secretary or 
        Assistant Secretary-level positions to comprehensively conduct 
        oversight of policy development, capabilities, and other 
        aspects of operations in the information environment as 
        determined pursuant to the information operations posture 
        review under paragraph (1)(B).
            (C) An assessment of various models for operationalizing 
        information operations, including the feasibility and 
        advisability of establishing an Army Information Warfare 
        Command.
            (D) A review of the role of information operations in 
        combatant commander operational planning, the ability of 
        combatant commanders to respond to hostile acts by adversaries, 
        and the ability of combatant commanders to engage and build 
        capacity with allies.
            (E) A review of the law, policies, and authorities relating 
        to, and necessary for, the United States to conduct military 
        operations, including clandestine military operations, in the 
        information environment.
        (4) Submission to congress.--Upon completion, the Secretary of 
    Defense shall present the strategy for operations in the 
    information environment and the information operations posture 
    review under subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, of paragraph 
    (1) to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
    Representatives and the Senate.
    (h) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide the 
    Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on 
    Armed Services of the House of Representatives a report for the 
    structuring and manning of information operations capabilities and 
    forces across the Department of Defense. The Secretary shall 
    provide such Committees with quarterly updates on such plan.
        (2) Elements.--The plan required under paragraph (1) shall 
    address the following:
            (A) How the Department of Defense will organize to develop 
        a combined information operations strategy and posture review 
        under subsection (g).
            (B) How the Department will fulfill the roles and 
        responsibilities of the Principal Information Operations 
        Advisor under section 397 of title 10, United States Code (as 
        added by subsection (a)).
            (C) How the Department will establish the information 
        operations cross-functional team under subsection (f)(1).
            (D) How the Department will utilize boards and working 
        groups involving senior-level Department representatives on 
        information operations.
            (E) Such other matters as the Secretary of Defense 
        considers appropriate.
    (i) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The terms ``foreign person'' and ``United States person'' 
    have the meanings given such terms in section 101 of the Foreign 
    Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801).
        (2) The term ``hostilities'' has the same meaning as such term 
    is used in the War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.).
        (3) The term ``clandestine military operation in the 
    information environment'' means an operation or activity, or 
    associated preparatory actions, authorized by the President or the 
    Secretary of Defense, that--
            (A) is marked by, held in, or conducted with secrecy, where 
        the intent is that the operation or activity will not be 
        apparent or acknowledged publicly; and
            (B) is to be carried out--
                (i) as part of a military operation plan approved by 
            the President or the Secretary of Defense;
                (ii) to deter, safeguard, or defend against attacks or 
            malicious influence activities against the United States, 
            allies of the United States, and interests of the United 
            States;
                (iii) in support of hostilities or military operations 
            involving the United States armed forces; or
                (iv) in support of military operations short of 
            hostilities and in areas where hostilities are not 
            occurring for the purpose of preparation of the 
            environment, influence, force protection, and deterrence.
SEC. 1632. NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR SENSITIVE MILITARY CYBER 
OPERATIONS.
    Section 395 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)(3), by inserting ``, signed by the 
    Secretary, or the Secretary's designee,'' after ``written 
    notification''; and
        (2) in subsection (c)--
            (A) in paragraph (1)--
                (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and'' after the 
            semicolon at the end;
                (ii) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as subparagraph 
            (C); and
                (iii) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following 
            new subparagraph:
            ``(B) is determined to--
                ``(i) have a medium or high collateral effects 
            estimate;
                ``(ii) have a medium or high intelligence gain or loss;
                ``(iii) have a medium or high probability of political 
            retaliation, as determined by the political military 
            assessment contained within the associated concept of 
            operations;
                ``(iv) have a medium or high probability of detection 
            when detection is not intended; or
                ``(v) result in medium or high collateral effects; 
            and''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking ``outside the 
        Department of Defense Information Networks to defeat an ongoing 
        or imminent threat''.
SEC. 1633. EVALUATION OF CYBER VULNERABILITIES OF MAJOR WEAPON SYSTEMS 
OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    Section 1647 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsections:
    ``(f) Written Notification.--If the Secretary determines that the 
Department will not complete an evaluation of the cyber vulnerabilities 
of each major weapon system of the Department by the date specified in 
subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall provide to the congressional 
defense committees written notification relating to each such 
incomplete evaluation. Such a written notification shall include the 
following:
        ``(1) An identification of each major weapon system for which 
    an evaluation will not be complete by the date specified in 
    subsection (a)(1), the anticipated date of completion of the 
    evaluation of each such weapon system, and a description of the 
    remaining work to be done for the evaluation of each such weapon 
    system.
        ``(2) A justification for the inability to complete such an 
    evaluation by the date specified in subsection (a)(1).
    ``(g) Report.--The Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, shall provide a report to the 
congressional defense committees upon completion of the requirement for 
an evaluation of the cyber vulnerabilities of each major weapon system 
of the Department under this section. Such report shall include the 
following:
        ``(1) An identification of cyber vulnerabilities of each major 
    weapon system requiring mitigation.
        ``(2) An identification of current and planned efforts to 
    address the cyber vulnerabilities of each major weapon system 
    requiring mitigation, including efforts across the doctrine, 
    organization, training, materiel, leadership and education, 
    personnel, and facilities of the Department.
        ``(3) A description of joint and common cyber vulnerability 
    mitigation solutions and efforts, including solutions and efforts 
    across the doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership 
    and education, personnel, and facilities of the Department.
        ``(4) A description of lessons learned and best practices 
    regarding evaluations of the cyber vulnerabilities and cyber 
    vulnerability mitigation efforts relating to major weapon systems, 
    including an identification of useful tools and technologies for 
    discovering and mitigating vulnerabilities, such as those specified 
    in section 1657 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), and 
    steps taken to institutionalize the use of these tools and 
    technologies.
        ``(5) A description of efforts to share lessons learned and 
    best practices regarding evaluations of the cyber vulnerabilities 
    and cyber vulnerability mitigation efforts of major weapon systems 
    across the Department.
        ``(6) An identification of measures taken to institutionalize 
    evaluations of cyber vulnerabilities of major weapon systems, 
    including an identification of which major weapon systems evaluated 
    under this section will be reevaluated in the future, when these 
    evaluations will occur, and how evaluations will occur for future 
    major weapon systems.
        ``(7) Information relating to guidance, processes, procedures, 
    or other activities established to mitigate or address the 
    likelihood of cyber vulnerabilities of major weapon systems by 
    incorporation of lessons learned in the research, development, 
    test, evaluation, and acquisition cycle, including promotion of 
    cyber education of the acquisition workforce.
        ``(8) An identification of systems to be incorporated into or 
    that have been incorporated into the National Security Agency's 
    Strategic Cybersecurity Program and the status of these systems in 
    the Program.
        ``(9) Any other matters the Secretary determines relevant.''.
SEC. 1634. QUARTERLY ASSESSMENTS OF THE READINESS OF CYBER MISSION 
FORCES.
    (a) In General.--Section 484(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
        (2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
    paragraph (4):
        ``(4) An overview of the readiness of the Cyber Mission Forces 
    to perform assigned missions that--
            ``(A) address all of the abilities of such Forces to 
        conduct cyberspace operations based on capability and capacity 
        of personnel, equipment, training, and equipment condition--
                ``(i) using both quantitative and qualitative metrics; 
            and
                ``(ii) in a way that is common to all military 
            departments; and
            ``(B) is consistent with readiness reporting pursuant to 
        section 482 of this title.''.
    (b) Metrics.--
        (1) Establishment required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
    establish metrics for the assessment of the readiness of the Cyber 
    Mission Forces of the Department of Defense.
        (2) Briefings required.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
    of the enactment of this Act and quarterly thereafter until 
    completion of the establishment of the metrics under paragraph (1), 
    the Secretary shall provide a briefing to the congressional defense 
    committees on such metrics, including progress as required pursuant 
    to subsection (c).
    (c) Modification of Readiness Reporting System.--Not later than 180 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
take such actions as the Secretary considers appropriate to ensure that 
the comprehensive readiness reporting system established pursuant to 
section 117(a) of title 10, United States Code, covers matters relating 
to the readiness of the Cyber Mission Forces--
        (1) using the metrics established pursuant to subsection 
    (b)(1); and
        (2) in a manner that is consistent with sections 117 and 482 of 
    such title.
    (d) First Quarterly Briefing Assessing Cyber Readiness.--The 
amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect on the date that is 
180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 1635. CYBER POSTURE REVIEW.
    Section 1644 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``, not later than December 
    31, 2022, and quadrennially thereafter,'' before ``conduct'';
        (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``the review'' and inserting 
    ``each review'';
        (3) in subsection (c)--
            (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``The review'' and inserting ``Each review'';
            (B) by redesignating paragraph (9) as paragraph (11); and
            (C) by inserting after paragraph (8) the following new 
        paragraphs:
        ``(9) An assessment of the potential costs, benefits, and 
    value, if any, of establishing a cyber force as a separate 
    uniformed service.
        ``(10) Any recurrent problems or capability gaps that remain 
    unaddressed since the previous posture review.'';
        (4) in subsection (d)--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``the cyber'' and 
        inserting ``each cyber'';
            (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``The report'' and 
        inserting ``Each report''; and
            (C) by striking paragraph (3); and
        (5) in subsection (e), by striking ``period beginning on the 
    date that is five years after the date of the enactment of this Act 
    and ending on the date that is 10 years after such date of 
    enactment'' and inserting ``eight-year period that begins on the 
    date of each review conducted under subsection (a)''.
SEC. 1636. MODIFICATION OF ELEMENTS OF ASSESSMENT REQUIRED FOR 
TERMINATION OF DUAL-HAT ARRANGEMENT FOR COMMANDER OF THE UNITED STATES 
CYBER COMMAND.
    Section 1642 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2017 (130 Stat. 2601; Public Law 114-328) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)(2)(C)--
            (A) in clause (ii), by inserting ``and national 
        intelligence operations'' after ``operations'';
            (B) by amending clause (iii) to read as follows:
                ``(iii) The tools, weapons, and accesses used in and 
            available for military cyber operations are sufficient for 
            achieving required effects and United States Cyber Command 
            is capable of acquiring or developing such tools, weapons, 
            and accesses.''; and
            (C) by amending clause (vi) to read as follows:
                ``(vi) The Cyber Mission Force has achieved full 
            operational capability and has demonstrated the capacity to 
            execute the cyber missions of the Department, including the 
            following:

                    ``(I) Execution of national-level missions through 
                cyberspace, including deterrence and disruption of 
                adversary cyber activity.
                    ``(II) Defense of the Department of Defense 
                Information Network.
                    ``(III) Support for other combatant commands, 
                including targeting of adversary military assets.'';

        (2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
        (3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(c) Biannual Briefing.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this subsection and biannually thereafter, the 
    Secretary of Defense and the Director of National Intelligence 
    shall provide to the appropriate committees of Congress briefings 
    on the nature of the National Security Agency and United States 
    Cyber Command's current and future partnership. Briefings under 
    this subsection shall not terminate until the certification 
    specified in subsection (a) is issued.
        ``(2) Elements.--Each briefing under this subsection shall 
    include status updates on the current and future National Security 
    Agency-United States Cyber Command partnership efforts, including 
    relating to the following:
            ``(A) Common infrastructure and capability acquisition.
            ``(B) Operational priorities and partnership.
            ``(C) Research and development partnership.
            ``(D) Executed documents, written memoranda of agreements 
        or understandings, and policies issued governing such current 
        and future partnership.
            ``(E) Projected long-term efforts.''.
SEC. 1637. MODIFICATION OF CYBER SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM.
    Section 2200a(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``or advanced degree, or a certification,'' and inserting 
``advanced degree, or certificate''.
SEC. 1638. TIER 1 EXERCISE OF SUPPORT TO CIVIL AUTHORITIES FOR A CYBER 
INCIDENT.
    Section 1648 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``The'' and inserting ``Not 
    later than May 1, 2020, the''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2020 for the 
Department of Defense for the White House Communications Agency, not 
more than 90 percent of such funds may be obligated or expended until 
the initiation of the tier 1 exercise required under subsection (a).''.
SEC. 1639. EXTENSION OF THE CYBERSPACE SOLARIUM COMMISSION.
    Paragraph (1) of section 1652(k) of the John S. McCain National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is 
amended by striking ``September 1, 2019'' and inserting ``April 30, 
2020''.
SEC. 1640. AUTHORITY TO USE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FUNDS FOR CYBER 
OPERATIONS-PECULIAR CAPABILITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense and each Secretary of the 
military departments concerned may obligate and expend not more than 
$3,000,000 of amounts authorized to be appropriated for operation and 
maintenance per service in each of fiscal years 2020 through 2022 to 
carry out cyber operations-peculiar capability development projects.
    (b) Notification.--Not later than 15 days after exercising the 
authority provided for in subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense, or 
his designee, and each Secretary of the military departments concerned, 
or their designees, shall notify the congressional defense committees 
of such exercise for projects exceeding $500,000.
    (c) Report.--Not later than December 31 of each year through 2022, 
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on obligations and expenditures made pursuant to 
the authority provided for in subsection (a). Each such report shall 
include a full description and evaluation of each of the cyber 
operations-peculiar capability development projects that is the subject 
of each such obligation or expenditure, definitions and standards for 
cyber operations-peculiar requirements, transition plans, and any other 
matters the Secretary determines relevant.
SEC. 1641. ROLE OF CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER IN IMPROVING ENTERPRISE-
WIDE CYBERSECURITY.
    (a) In General.--In carrying out the responsibilities established 
in section 142 of title 10, United States Code, the Chief Information 
Officer of the Department of Defense shall, to the maximum extent 
practicable, ensure that the cybersecurity programs and capabilities of 
the Department--
        (1) fit into an enterprise-wide cybersecurity architecture;
        (2) are maximally interoperable with each other, including 
    those programs and capabilities deployed by the components of the 
    Department;
        (3) enhance enterprise-level visibility and responsiveness to 
    threats; and
        (4) are developed, procured, instituted, and managed in a cost-
    efficient manner, exploiting economies of scale and enterprise-wide 
    services and discouraging unnecessary customization and piecemeal 
    acquisition.
    (b) Requirements.--In carrying out subsection (a), the Chief 
Information Officer shall--
        (1) manage and modernize the cybersecurity architecture of the 
    Department, including--
            (A) ensuring the cybersecurity architecture of the 
        Department maximizes cybersecurity capability, network, and 
        endpoint activity data sharing across Department components;
            (B) ensuring the cybersecurity architecture of the 
        Department supports improved automaticity of cybersecurity 
        detection and response; and
            (C) modernizing and configuring the Department's 
        standardized deployed perimeter, network-level, and endpoint 
        capabilities to improve interoperability, meet pressing 
        capability needs, and negate common adversary tactics, 
        techniques, and procedures;
        (2) establish mechanisms to enable and mandate, as necessary, 
    cybersecurity capability and network and endpoint activity data-
    sharing across Department components;
        (3) make mission data, through data tagging, automatic 
    transmission, and other means, accessible and discoverable by 
    Department components other than owners of such mission data;
        (4) incorporate into the cybersecurity architecture of the 
    Department emerging cybersecurity technologies from the Defense 
    Advanced Research Projects Agency, the Strategic Capabilities 
    Office, the Defense Innovation Unit, the laboratories of the 
    military departments, and the commercial sector;
        (5) ensure that the Department possesses the necessary 
    computing infrastructure, through technology refresh, installation 
    or acquisition of bandwidth, and the use of cloud computing power, 
    to host and enable necessary cybersecurity capabilities; and
        (6) utilize the Department's cybersecurity expertise to improve 
    cybersecurity performance, operations, and acquisition, including--
            (A) the cybersecurity testing, architecting, and 
        engineering expertise of the National Security Agency; and
            (B) the technology policy, workforce, and engineering 
        expertise of the Defense Digital Service.
SEC. 1642. NOTIFICATION OF DELEGATION OF AUTHORITIES TO THE SECRETARY 
OF DEFENSE FOR MILITARY OPERATIONS IN CYBERSPACE.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide written 
notification to the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate of 
the following:
        (1) Authorities delegated to the Secretary by the President for 
    military operations in cyberspace that are otherwise held by the 
    National Command Authority, not later than 15 days after any such 
    delegation. A notification under this paragraph shall include a 
    description of the authorities delegated to the Secretary.
        (2) Concepts of operations approved by the Secretary pursuant 
    to delegated authorities described in paragraph (1), not later than 
    15 days after any such approval. A notification under this 
    paragraph shall include the following:
            (A) A description of authorized activities to be conducted 
        or planned to be conducted pursuant to such authorities.
            (B) The defined military objectives relating to such 
        authorities.
            (C) A list of countries in which such authorities may be 
        exercised.
            (D) A description of relevant orders issued by the 
        Secretary in accordance with such authorities.
    (b) Procedures.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish and 
    submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
    Representatives and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate 
    procedures for complying with the requirements of subsection (a), 
    consistent with the national security of the United States and the 
    protection of operational integrity. The Secretary shall promptly 
    notify such committees in writing of any changes to such procedures 
    at least 14 days prior to the adoption of any such changes.
        (2) Sufficiency.--The Committee on Armed Services of the House 
    of Representatives and the Committee on Armed Services of the 
    Senate shall ensure that committee procedures designed to protect 
    from unauthorized disclosure classified information relating to 
    national security of the United States are sufficient to protect 
    the information that is submitted to such committees pursuant to 
    this section.
        (3) Notification in event of unauthorized disclosure.--In the 
    event of an unauthorized disclosure of authorities covered by this 
    section, the Secretary of Defense shall ensure, to the maximum 
    extent practicable, that the Committee on Armed Services of the 
    House of Representatives and the Committee on Armed Services of the 
    Senate are notified immediately. Notification under this paragraph 
    may be verbal or written, but in the event of a verbal 
    notification, a written notification signed by the Secretary shall 
    be provided by not later than 48 hours after the provision of such 
    verbal notification.
SEC. 1643. LIMITATION OF FUNDING FOR CONSOLIDATED AFLOAT NETWORKS AND 
ENTERPRISE SERVICES.
    Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal 
year 2020 for the Consolidated Afloat Networks and Enterprise Services, 
not more than 85 percent of such funds may be obligated or expended 
until the Secretary of the Navy and the Chief Information Officer of 
the Department of Defense independently certify to the congressional 
defense committees, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of 
the House of Representatives, and the Select Committee on Intelligence 
of the Senate that recommendations in the Audit of Consolidated Afloat 
Networks and Enterprise Services Security Safeguards (DODIG-2019-072) 
have been implemented.
SEC. 1644. ANNUAL MILITARY CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS REPORT.
    (a) In General.--Not later than March 1 of each year, the Secretary 
of Defense shall provide to the congressional defense committees a 
written report summarizing all named military cyberspace operations 
conducted in the previous calendar year, including cyber effects, 
operations, cyber effects enabling operations, and cyber operations 
conducted as defensive operations. Each such summary should be 
organized by adversarial country and should include the following for 
each named operation:
        (1) An identification of the objective and purpose.
        (2) Descriptions of the impacted countries, organizations, or 
    forces, and nature of the impact.
        (3) A description of methodologies used for the cyber effects 
    operation or cyber effects enabling operation.
        (4) An identification of the Cyber Mission Force teams, or 
    other Department of Defense entity or units, that conducted such 
    operation, and supporting teams, entities, or units.
        (5) An identification of the infrastructures on which such 
    operations occurred.
        (6) A description of relevant legal, operational, and funding 
    authorities.
        (7) Additional costs beyond baseline operations and maintenance 
    and personnel costs directly associated with the conduct of the 
    cyber effects operation or cyber effects enabling operation.
        (8) Any other matters the Secretary determines relevant.
    (b) Classification.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide each 
report required under subsection (a) at a classification level the 
Secretary determines appropriate.
    (c) Limitation.--This section does not apply to cyber-enabled 
military information support operations or military deception 
operations.
SEC. 1645. ANNUAL REPORT ON CYBER ATTACKS AND INTRUSIONS AGAINST THE 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE BY CERTAIN FOREIGN ENTITIES.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and each fiscal year thereafter through fiscal 
year 2023, the Principal Cyber Advisor to the Secretary of Defense and 
Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense shall submit to 
the congressional defense committees a report on cyber attacks and 
intrusions in the previous 12 months by agents or associates of the 
Governments of the Russian Federation, the People's Republic of China, 
the Islamic Republic of Iran, and the Democratic People's Republic of 
Korea against or into the information systems (as such term is defined 
in section 3502 of title 44, United States Code) of--
        (1) the Department of Defense; and
        (2) any contractor of the Department of Defense that works on 
    sensitive United States military technology.
    (b) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in classified form. The data in such report shall be aggregated from 
U.S. Cyber Command, the Defense Information Systems Agency, the 
military services and Department of Defense agencies, the Joint Staff, 
and the Office of the Secretary of Defense.
SEC. 1646. CONTROL AND ANALYSIS OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE DATA STOLEN 
THROUGH CYBERSPACE.
    (a) Requirements.--If the Secretary of Defense determines that 
significant Department of Defense data may have been stolen through 
cyberspace and evidence of theft of the data in question--
        (1) is in the possession of a component of the Department, the 
    Secretary shall--
            (A) either transfer or replicate and transfer such 
        Department data in a prompt and secure manner to a secure 
        repository with access by Department personnel appropriately 
        limited on a need-to-know basis or otherwise ensure such 
        consistent access to the relevant data by other means;
            (B) ensure the Department applies such automated analytic 
        tools and capabilities to the repository of potentially 
        compromised data as are necessary to rapidly understand the 
        scope and effect of the potential compromise;
            (C) for high priority and mission critical Department 
        systems, develop analytic products that characterize the scope 
        of data compromised;
            (D) ensure that relevant mission-affected entities in the 
        Department are made aware of the theft or possible theft and, 
        as damage assessment and mitigation proceeds, are kept apprised 
        of the extent of the data stolen; and
            (E) ensure that Department counterintelligence 
        organizations are--
                (i) fully integrated with any damage assessment team 
            assigned to the breach;
                (ii) fully informed of the data that have or 
            potentially have been stolen and the effect of such theft; 
            and
                (iii) provided resources and tasked, in conjunction 
            with subject matter experts and responsible authorities, to 
            immediately and appropriately respond, including through 
            the development and execution of relevant countermeasures, 
            to any breach involving espionage and data theft; or
        (2) is in the possession of or under controls or restrictions 
    imposed by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, or a national 
    counterintelligence or intelligence organization, the Secretary 
    shall determine, jointly with the Director of the Federal Bureau of 
    Investigation or the Director of National Intelligence, as 
    appropriate, the most expeditious process, means, and conditions 
    for carrying out the activities otherwise required by paragraph 
    (1).
    (b) Recommendations.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees such recommendations as the Secretary may have for 
legislative or administrative action to address such barriers that may 
be inhibiting the implementation of this section.
SEC. 1647. USE OF NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY CYBERSECURITY EXPERTISE TO 
SUPPORT EVALUATION OF COMMERCIAL CYBERSECURITY PRODUCTS.
    (a) Advisory Mission.--The National Security Agency shall, as a 
mission in its role in securing the information systems of the 
Department of Defense, advise and assist the Department of Defense in 
its evaluation and adoption of cybersecurity products and services from 
industry, especially the commercial cybersecurity sector.
    (b) Program to Improve Acquisition of Cybersecurity Products and 
Services.--
        (1) Establishment.--Consistent with subsection (a), the 
    Director of the National Security Agency shall establish a 
    permanent program consisting of market research, testing, and 
    expertise transmission, or augments to existing programs, to 
    improve the evaluation by the Department of Defense of 
    cybersecurity products and services.
        (2) Requirements.--Under the program established pursuant to 
    paragraph (1), the Director shall, independently and at the request 
    of the components of the Department of Defense--
            (A) test and evaluate commercially available cybersecurity 
        products and services using--
                (i) generally known cyber operations techniques; and
                (ii) tools and cyber operations techniques and advanced 
            tools and techniques available to the National Security 
            Agency;
            (B) develop and establish standard procedures, techniques, 
        and threat-informed metrics to perform the testing and 
        evaluation required by subparagraph (A); and
            (C) advise the Chief Information Officer and the components 
        of the Department of Defense on the merits and disadvantages of 
        evaluated cybersecurity products, including with respect to--
                (i) any synergies between products;
                (ii) value;
                (iii) matters relating to operation and maintenance; 
            and
                (iv) matters relating to customization requirements.
        (3) Limitations.--The program established under paragraph (1) 
    may not--
            (A) by used to accredit cybersecurity products and services 
        for use by the Department;
            (B) create approved products lists; or
            (C) be used for the procurement and fielding of 
        cybersecurity products on behalf of the Department.
SEC. 1648. FRAMEWORK TO ENHANCE CYBERSECURITY OF THE UNITED STATES 
DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE.
    (a) Framework Required.--Not later than February 1, 2020, the 
Secretary of Defense shall develop a consistent, comprehensive 
framework to enhance cybersecurity for the United States defense 
industrial base.
    (b) Elements.--The framework developed pursuant to subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
        (1) Identification of unified cybersecurity standards, 
    regulations, metrics, ratings, third-party certifications, or 
    requirements to be imposed on the defense industrial base for the 
    purpose of assessing the cybersecurity of individual contractors.
        (2) Roles and responsibilities of the Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, the Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Intelligence and Security, the Chief Information 
    Officer, the Director of the Protecting Critical Technologies Task 
    Force, and the Secretaries of the military departments relating to 
    the following:
            (A) Establishing and ensuring compliance with cybersecurity 
        standards, regulations, and policies.
            (B) Deconflicting existing cybersecurity standards, 
        regulations, and policies.
            (C) Coordinating with and providing assistance to the 
        defense industrial base for cybersecurity matters, particularly 
        as relates to the programs and processes described in 
        paragraphs (8) and (9).
            (D) Management and oversight of the acquisition process, 
        including responsibility determination, solicitation, award, 
        and contractor management, relating to cybersecurity standards, 
        regulations, metrics, ratings, third-party certifications, or 
        requirements.
        (3) The responsibilities of the prime contractors, and all 
    subcontractors in the supply chain, for implementing the required 
    cybersecurity standards, regulations, metrics, ratings, third-party 
    certifications, and requirements identified under paragraph (1).
        (4) Definitions for ``Controlled Unclassified Information'' 
    (CUI) and ``For Official Use Only'' (FOUO), as well as policies 
    regarding protecting information designated as either of such.
        (5) Methods and programs for managing controlled unclassified 
    information, and for limiting the presence of unnecessary sensitive 
    information on contractor networks.
        (6) A plan to provide implementation guidance, education, 
    manuals, and, as necessary, direct technical support or assistance, 
    to contractors on matters relating to cybersecurity.
        (7) Quantitative metrics for assessing the effectiveness of the 
    overall framework over time, with respect to the exfiltration of 
    controlled unclassified information from the defense industrial 
    base.
        (8) A comprehensive list of current and planned Department of 
    Defense programs to assist the defense industrial base with 
    cybersecurity compliance requirements of the Department, including 
    those programs that provide training, expertise, and funding, and 
    maintain approved security products lists and approved providers 
    lists.
        (9) Processes for enhanced threat information sharing between 
    the Department of Defense and the defense industrial base.
    (c) Matters for Consideration.--In developing the framework 
pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary shall consider the following:
        (1) Designating an official to be responsible for the 
    cybersecurity of the defense industrial base.
        (2) Risk-based methodologies, standards, metrics, and tiered 
    cybersecurity requirements for the defense industrial base, 
    including third-party certifications such as the Cybersecurity 
    Maturity Model Certification pilot program, as the basis for a 
    mandatory Department standard.
        (3) Tailoring cybersecurity requirements for small- and medium-
    sized contractors based on a risk-based approach.
        (4) Ensuring a consistent approach across the Department to 
    cybersecurity standards, regulations, metrics, ratings, third-party 
    certifications, or requirements of the defense industrial base.
        (5) Ensuring the Department's traceability and visibility of 
    cybersecurity compliance of suppliers to all levels of the supply 
    chain.
        (6) Evaluating incentives and penalties for cybersecurity 
    performance of suppliers.
        (7) Integrating cybersecurity and traditional 
    counterintelligence measures, requirements, and programs.
        (8) Establishing a secure software development environment 
    (DevSecOps) in a cloud environment inside the perimeter of the 
    Department for contractors to perform their development work.
        (9) Establishing a secure cloud environment through which 
    contractors may access the data of the Department needed for their 
    contract work.
        (10) An evaluation of the resources and utilization of 
    Department programs to assist the defense industrial base in 
    complying with cybersecurity compliance requirements referred to in 
    subsection (b)(1).
        (11) Technological means, operational concepts, reference 
    architectures, offensive counterintelligence operation concepts, 
    and plans for operationalization to complicate adversary espionage, 
    including honeypotting and data obfuscation.
        (12) Implementing enhanced security vulnerability assessments 
    for contractors working on critical acquisition programs, 
    technologies, manufacturing capabilities, and research areas.
        (13) Identifying ways to better leverage technology and employ 
    machine learning or artificial intelligence capabilities, such as 
    Internet Protocol monitoring and data integrity capabilities, to be 
    applied to contractor information systems that host, receive, or 
    transmit controlled unclassified information.
        (14) Developing tools to easily segregate program data to only 
    allow subcontractors access to their specific information.
        (15) Appropriate communications of threat assessments of the 
    defense industrial base to the acquisition workforce at all 
    classification levels.
        (16) A single Sector Coordinating Council for the defense 
    industrial base.
        (17) Appropriate communications with the defense industrial 
    base on the impact of cybersecurity requirements in contracting and 
    procurement decisions.
    (d) Consultation.--In developing the framework required pursuant to 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall consult with the following:
        (1) Industry groups representing the defense industrial base.
        (2) Contractors in the defense industrial base.
        (3) The Director of the National Institute of Standards and 
    Technology.
        (4) The Secretary of Energy.
        (5) The Director of National Intelligence.
        (6) Relevant Federal regulatory agencies.
    (e) Briefing.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than March 11, 2020, the Secretary 
    of Defense shall provide the congressional defense committees with 
    a briefing on the framework developed pursuant to subsection (a).
        (2) Contents.--The briefing required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) An overview of the framework developed pursuant to 
        subsection (a).
            (B) Identification of such pilot programs as the Secretary 
        considers may be required to improve the cybersecurity of the 
        defense industrial base.
            (C) Implementation timelines and identification of costs.
            (D) Such recommendations as the Secretary may have for 
        legislative action to improve the cybersecurity of the defense 
        industrial base.
    (f) Quarterly Briefings.--
        (1) In general.--Not less frequently than once each quarter 
    after the briefing provided pursuant to subsection (e) until 
    February 1, 2022, the Secretary of Defense shall brief the 
    congressional defense committees on the status of development and 
    implementation of the framework developed pursuant to subsection 
    (a).
        (2) Coordination with other briefings.--Each briefing under 
    paragraph (1) shall be conducted in conjunction with a quarterly 
    briefing under section 484(a) of title 10, United States Code.
        (3) Elements.--Each briefing under paragraph (1) shall include 
    the following:
            (A) The current status of the development and 
        implementation of the framework developed pursuant to 
        subsection (a).
            (B) A description of the efforts undertaken by the 
        Secretary to evaluate the matters for consideration set forth 
        in subsection (c).
            (C) The current status of any pilot programs the Secretary 
        is carrying out to develop the framework.
SEC. 1649. REPORT ON CYBERSECURITY TRAINING PROGRAMS.
    Not later than 240 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committee on Armed 
Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Armed 
Services of the Senate a report that accounts for all of the efforts, 
programs, initiatives, and investments of the Department of Defense to 
train elementary, secondary, and postsecondary students in fields 
related to cybersecurity, cyber defense, and cyber operations. The 
report shall--
        (1) include information on the metrics used to evaluate such 
    efforts, programs, initiatives, and investments, and identify 
    overlaps or redundancies across the such efforts, programs, 
    initiatives, and investments; and
        (2) address how the Department leverages such efforts, 
    programs, initiatives, and investments in the recruitment and 
    retention of both the civilian and military cyber workforces.
SEC. 1650. NATIONAL SECURITY PRESIDENTIAL MEMORANDUMS RELATING TO 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OPERATIONS IN CYBERSPACE.
    Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
upon request of the congressional defense committees, the President 
shall allow for such committees to read a copy of all National Security 
Presidential Memorandums relating to Department of Defense operations 
in cyberspace at an appropriately cleared facility of the requesting 
committee's choosing. At the conclusion of such reading, such documents 
shall be collected and returned to the President.
SEC. 1651. REORIENTATION OF BIG DATA PLATFORM PROGRAM.
    (a) Reorientation of Program.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than January 1, 2021, the Secretary 
    of Defense shall--
            (A) reorient the Big Data Platform program as specified in 
        this section; and
            (B) align the reorientation effort under an existing line 
        of effort of the Cyber Strategy of the Department of Defense.
        (2) Oversight of implementation.--The Secretary shall act 
    through the Principal Cyber Advisor and the supporting Cross 
    Functional Team in the oversight of the implementation of paragraph 
    (1).
    (b) Common Baseline and Security Classification Scheme.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than January 1, 2021, the Secretary 
    shall establish a common baseline and security classification 
    scheme for the collection, storage, processing, querying, analysis, 
    and accessibility of a common and comprehensive set of metadata 
    from sensors, applications, appliances, products, and systems 
    deployed across the Department of Defense Information Network 
    (DODIN) to enable the discovery, tracking, and remediation of 
    cybersecurity threats.
        (2) Requirements.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary 
    shall--
            (A) take such actions as the Secretary considers necessary 
        to standardize deployed infrastructure, including the 
        Department of Defense's perimeter capabilities at the Internet 
        Access Points, the Joint Regional Security Stacks, or other 
        approved solutions, and the routing of data laterally and 
        vertically from Department of Defense Information Network 
        segments and tiers, to enable standard and comprehensive 
        metadata collection;
            (B) take such actions as the Secretary considers necessary 
        to standardize deployed cybersecurity applications, products, 
        and sensors and the routing of data laterally and vertically 
        from Department of Defense Information Network segments and 
        tiers, to enable standard and comprehensive metadata 
        collection;
            (C) develop an enterprise-wide architecture and strategy 
        for--
                (i) where to place sensors or extract data from network 
            information technology, operational technology, and 
            cybersecurity appliances, applications, products, and 
            systems for cybersecurity purposes;
                (ii) which metadata data records should be universally 
            sent to Big Data Platform instances and which metadata data 
            records, if any, should be locally retained; and
                (iii) expeditiously and efficiently transmitting 
            metadata records to the Big Data Platform instances, 
            including the acquisition and installation of further data 
            bandwidth;
            (D) determine the appropriate number, organization, and 
        functions of separate Big Data Platform instances, and whether 
        the Big Data Platform instances that are currently managed by 
        Department of Defense components, including the military 
        services, should instead be jointly and regionally organized, 
        or terminated;
            (E) determine the appropriate roles of the Defense 
        Information Systems Agency's Acropolis, United States Cyber 
        Command's Scarif, and any similar Big Data Platforms as 
        enterprise-wide real-time cybersecurity situational awareness 
        capabilities or as complements or replacements for component 
        level Big Data Platform instances;
            (F) ensure that all Big Data Platform instances are 
        engineered and approved to enable standard access and 
        expeditious query capabilities by the Unified Platform, the 
        network defense service providers, and the Cyber Mission 
        Forces, with centrally managed authentication and authorization 
        services;
            (G) prohibit and remove barriers to information sharing, 
        distributed query, data analysis, and collaboration across Big 
        Data Platform instances, such as incompatible interfaces, 
        interconnection service agreements, and the imposition of 
        accreditation boundaries;
            (H) transition all Big Data Platform instances to a cloud 
        computing environment in alignment with the cloud strategy of 
        the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense;
            (I) consider whether packet capture databases should 
        continue to be maintained separately from the Big Data Platform 
        instances, managed at the secret level of classification, and 
        treated as malware-infected when the packet data are copies of 
        packets extant in the Department of Defense Information 
        Network;
            (J) in the case that the Secretary decides to sustain the 
        status quo on packet capture databases, ensure that analysts 
        operating on or from the Unified Platform, the Big Data 
        Platform instances, the network defense services providers, and 
        the Cyber Mission Forces can directly access packets and query 
        the database; and
            (K) consider whether the Joint Artificial Intelligence 
        Center's cybersecurity artificial intelligence national mission 
        initiative, and any other similar initiatives, should include 
        an application for the metadata residing in the Big Data 
        Platform instances.
    (c) Limit on Data and Data Indexing Schema.--The Secretary shall 
ensure that the Unified Platform and the Big Data Platform programs 
achieve data and data indexing schema standardization and integration 
to ensure interoperability, access, and sharing by and between Big Data 
Platform and other data sources and stores.
    (d) Analytics and Application Sourcing and Collaboration.--The 
Secretary shall ensure that the services, U.S. Cyber Command, and 
Defense Information Systems Agency--
        (1) seek advanced analytics and applications from Government 
    and commercial sources that can be executed on the deployed Big 
    Data Platform architecture; and
        (2) collaborate with vendors offering commercial analytics and 
    applications, including support to refactoring commercial 
    capabilities to the Government platform where industry can still 
    own the intellectual property embedded in the analytics and 
    applications.
    (e) Briefing Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act and not less frequently than once every 180 
days thereafter until the activities required by subsection (a)(1) are 
completed, the Secretary shall brief the congressional defense 
committees on the activities of the Secretary in carrying out 
subsection (b).
SEC. 1652. ZERO-BASED REVIEW OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CYBER AND 
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PERSONNEL.
    (a) Review Required.--Not later than January 1, 2021, each head of 
a covered department, component, or agency shall--
        (1) complete a zero-based review of the cyber and information 
    technology personnel of the head's covered department, component, 
    or agency; and
        (2) provide the Principal Cyber Advisor, the Chief Information 
    Officer of the Department of Defense, and the Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Personnel and Readiness the findings of the head with 
    respect to the head's covered department, component, or agency.
    (b) Covered Departments, Components, and Agencies.--For purposes of 
this section, a covered department, component, or agency is--
        (1) an independent Department of Defense component or agency;
        (2) the Office of the Secretary of Defense;
        (3) a component of the Joint Staff;
        (4) a military department or an armed force; or
        (5) a reserve component of the Armed Forces.
    (c) Scope of Review.--As part of a review conducted pursuant to 
subsection (a)(1), the head of a covered department, component, or 
agency shall, with respect to the covered department, component, or 
agency of the head--
        (1) assess military, civilian, and contractor positions and 
    personnel performing cyber and information technology missions;
        (2) determine the roles and functions assigned by reviewing 
    existing position descriptions and conducting interviews to 
    quantify the current workload performed by military, civilian, and 
    contractor workforce;
        (3) compare the Department's manning with the manning of 
    comparable industry organizations;
        (4) include evaluation of the utility of cyber- and information 
    technology-focused missions, positions, and personnel within such 
    components--
            (A) to assess the effectiveness and efficiency of current 
        activities;
            (B) to assess the necessity of increasing, reducing, or 
        eliminating resources; and
            (C) to guide prioritization of investment and funding;
        (5) develop recommendations and objectives for organizational, 
    manning, and equipping change, taking into account anticipated 
    developments in information technologies, workload projections, 
    automation and process enhancements, and Department requirements;
        (6) develop a gap analysis, contrasting the current 
    organization and the objectives developed pursuant to paragraph 
    (5); and
        (7) develop roadmaps of prioritized activities and a timeline 
    for implementing the activities to close the gaps identified 
    pursuant to paragraph (6).
    (d) Elements.--In carrying out a review pursuant to subsection 
(a)(1), the head of a covered department, component, or agency shall 
consider the following:
        (1) Whether position descriptions and coding designators for 
    given cybersecurity and information technology roles are accurate 
    indicators of the work being performed.
        (2) Whether the function of any cybersecurity or information 
    technology position or personnel can be replaced by acquisition of 
    cybersecurity or information technology products or automation.
        (3) Whether a given component or subcomponent is over- or 
    under-resourced in terms of personnel, using industry standards as 
    a benchmark where applicable.
        (4) Whether cybersecurity service provider positions and 
    personnel fit coherently into the enterprise-wide cybersecurity 
    architecture and with the Department's cyber protection teams.
        (5) Whether the function of any cybersecurity or information 
    technology position or personnel could be conducted more 
    efficiently or effectively by enterprise-level cyber or information 
    technology personnel.
    (e) Furnishing Data and Analysis.--
        (1) Data and analysis.--In carrying out subsection (a)(2), each 
    head of a covered department, component, or agency, shall furnish 
    to the Principal Cyber Advisor, the Chief Information Officer, and 
    the Under Secretary a description of the analysis that led to the 
    findings submitted under such subsection and the data used in such 
    analysis.
        (2) Certification.--The Principal Cyber Advisor, the Chief 
    Information Officer, and the Under Secretary of Defense shall 
    jointly review each submittal under subsection (a)(2) and certify 
    whether the findings and analysis are in compliance with the 
    requirements of this section.
    (f) Recommendations.--After receiving findings submitted by a head 
of a covered department, component, or agency pursuant to paragraph (2) 
of subsection (a) with respect to a review conducted by the head 
pursuant to paragraph (1) of such subsection, the Principal Cyber 
Advisor, the Chief Information Officer, and the Under Secretary shall 
jointly provide to such head such recommendations as the Principal 
Cyber Advisor, the Chief Information Officer, and the Under Secretary 
may have for changes in manning or acquisition that proceed from such 
review.
    (g) Implementation.--The Principal Cyber Advisor, the Chief 
Information Officer, and the Under Secretary shall jointly oversee and 
assist in the implementation of the roadmaps developed pursuant to 
subsection (c)(7) and the recommendations developed pursuant to 
subsection (f).
    (h) In-progress Reviews.--Not later than six months after the date 
of the enactment of this Act and not less frequently than once every 
six months thereafter until the Principal Cyber Advisor, the Chief 
Information Officer, and the Under Secretary give the briefing required 
by subsection (i), the Principal Cyber Advisor, the Chief Information 
Officer, and the Under Secretary shall jointly--
        (1) conduct in-progress reviews of the status of the reviews 
    required by subsection (a)(1); and
        (2) provide the congressional defense committees with a 
    briefing on such in-progress reviews.
    (i) Final Briefing.--After all of the reviews have been completed 
under paragraph (1) of subsection (a), after receiving all of the 
findings pursuant to paragraph (2) of such subsection, and not later 
than June 1, 2021, the Principal Cyber Advisor, the Chief Information 
Officer, and the Under Secretary shall jointly provide to the 
congressional defense committees a briefing on the findings of the 
Principal Cyber Advisor, the Chief Information Officer, and the Under 
Secretary with respect to such reviews, including such recommendations 
as the Principal Cyber Advisor, the Chief Information Officer, and the 
Under Secretary may have for changes to the budget of the Department as 
a result of such reviews.
    (j) Definition of Zero-based Review.--In this section, the term 
``zero-based review'' means a review in which an assessment is 
conducted with each item, position, or person costed anew, rather than 
in relation to its size or status in any previous budget.
SEC. 1653. STUDY ON IMPROVING CYBER CAREER PATHS IN THE NAVY.
    (a) Study Required.--Not later than October 1, 2020, the Secretary 
of the Navy and the Chief of Naval Operations shall jointly--
        (1) complete a study on methods to improve military and 
    civilian cyber career paths within the Navy; and
        (2) submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
    the findings of the Secretary and Chief with respect to the study 
    completed pursuant to paragraph (1), including all of the data used 
    in such study.
    (b) Elements.--The report submitted pursuant to subsection (a)(2) 
shall include the following:
        (1) A plan for implementing career paths for civilian and 
    military personnel tailored to develop expertise in cyber skill 
    sets, including skill sets appropriate for offensive and defensive 
    military cyber operations. Such plan should also evaluate the 
    current Cyber Warfare Engineer career field for officers, including 
    options for expanding the career field beyond current plans.
        (2) Suggested changes to the processes that govern the 
    identification of talent and career progression of the civilian and 
    military workforce.
        (3) A methodology for a cyber workforce assignment policy that 
    deliberately builds depth and breadth of knowledge regarding the 
    conduct of cyber operations throughout an entire career.
        (4) Possible enhancements to identifying, recruiting, training, 
    and retaining the civilian and military cyber workforce, especially 
    for Interactive On-Net operators and tool developers.
        (5) Recommendations for legislative and administrative actions 
    to address the findings and recommendations of the Secretary and 
    the Chief with respect to the study completed pursuant to 
    subsection (a)(1).
    (c) Consultation.--In conducting the study required by subsection 
(a)(1), the Secretary and the Chief shall consult with the following:
        (1) The Principal Cyber Advisor of the Department of Defense.
        (2) The Secretary of the Air Force.
        (3) The Commander of the United States Cyber Command.
        (4) The Air Force Chief of Staff.
        (5) The Secretary of the Army.
        (6) The Army Chief of Staff.
        (7) The Commandant of the Marine Corps.
        (8) The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness.
        (9) The Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense.
SEC. 1654. ACCREDITATION STANDARDS AND PROCESSES FOR CYBERSECURITY AND 
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES.
    (a) Assessment.--Consistent with the responsibilities and duties 
outlined in section 142 of title 10, United States Code, the Chief 
Information Officer of the Department of Defense shall conduct an 
enterprise assessment of accreditation standards and processes for 
cybersecurity and information technology products and services.
    (b) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than April 1, 2020, the Chief 
    Information Officer shall submit to the congressional defense 
    committees a report on the assessment conducted under subsection 
    (a).
        (2) Contents.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) The findings of the Chief Information Officer with 
        respect to the assessment conducted under subsection (a).
            (B) A description of the modifications proposed or 
        implemented to accreditation standards and processes arising 
        out of the assessment.
            (C) A description of how the Department will increasingly 
        automate accreditation processes, pursue agile development, 
        incorporate machine learning, and foster reciprocity across 
        authorizing officials.
SEC. 1655. STUDY ON FUTURE CYBER WARFIGHTING CAPABILITIES OF DEPARTMENT 
OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Study Required.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall direct the 
Defense Science Board to carry out a study on the future cyber 
warfighting capabilities of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Participation.--Participants in the study shall include the 
following:
        (1) Such members of the Board, including members of the Task 
    Force on Cyber Deterrence of the Board, as the Chairman of the 
    Board considers appropriate for the study.
        (2) Such additional temporary members or contracted support as 
    the Secretary--
            (A) selects from those recommended by the Chairman for 
        purposes of the study; and
            (B) considers to have significant technical, policy, or 
        military expertise.
    (c) Elements.--The study conducted pursuant to subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        (1) A technical evaluation of the Joint Cyber Warfighting 
    Architecture of the Department, especially the Unified Platform, 
    Joint Cyber Command and Control, and Persistent Cyber Training 
    Environment, including with respect to the following:
            (A) The suitability of the requirements and, as relevant, 
        the delivered capability of such architecture to modern cyber 
        warfighting.
            (B) Such requirements or capabilities as may be absent or 
        underemphasized in such architecture.
            (C) The speed of development and acquisition as compared to 
        mission need.
            (D) Identification of potential duplication of efforts 
        among the programs and concepts evaluated.
            (E) The coherence of such architecture with the National 
        Mission Teams and Combat Mission Teams of the Cyber Mission 
        Force, as constituted and organized on the day before the date 
        of the enactment of this Act.
            (F) The coherence of such architecture with the Cyber 
        Protection Teams of the Cyber Mission Force and the 
        cybersecurity service providers of the Department, as 
        constituted and organized on the day before the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.
            (G) The coherence of such architecture with the concepts of 
        persistent engagement and defending forward as incorporated in 
        the 2018 Department of Defense Cyber Strategy, including with 
        respect to operational concepts such as consistent spy-on-spy 
        engagement, securing adversary operating pictures, and 
        preemptively feeding indicators and warning to defensive 
        operators.
        (2) A technical evaluation of the tool development and 
    acquisition programs of the Department, including with respect to 
    the following:
            (A) The suitability of planned tool suite and cyber armory 
        constructs of the United States Cyber Command to modern cyber 
        warfighting.
            (B) The speed of development and acquisition as compared to 
        mission need.
            (C) The resourcing and effectiveness of the internal tool 
        development of the United States Cyber Command as compared to 
        the tool development of the National Security Agency.
            (D) The resourcing and effectiveness of the internal tool 
        development of the United States Cyber Command as compared to 
        its acquisition.
            (E) The coherence of such programs with the concepts of 
        persistent engagement and defending forward as incorporated in 
        the 2018 Department of Defense Cyber Strategy, including with 
        respect to operational concepts such as consistent spy-on-spy 
        engagement, securing adversary operating pictures, and 
        preemptively feeding indicators and warning to defensive 
        operators.
        (3) An evaluation of the operational planning and targeting of 
    the United States Cyber Command, including support for regional 
    combatant commands, and suitability for modern cyber warfighting.
        (4) Development of such recommendations as the Board may have 
    for legislative or administrative action relating to the future 
    cyber warfighting capabilities of the Department.
    (d) Access to Information.--The Secretary shall provide the Board 
with timely access to appropriate information, data, resources, and 
analysis so that the Board may conduct a thorough and independent 
analysis as required under this section.
    (e) Report.--
        (1) Transmittal to secretary.--Not later than November 1, 2021, 
    the Board shall transmit to the Secretary a final report on the 
    study conducted pursuant to subsection (a).
        (2) Transmittal to congress.--Not later than 30 days after the 
    date on which the Secretary receives the final report under 
    paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
    defense committees such report and such comments as the Secretary 
    considers appropriate.
SEC. 1656. STUDY TO DETERMINE THE OPTIMAL STRATEGY FOR STRUCTURING AND 
MANNING ELEMENTS OF THE JOINT FORCE HEADQUARTERS-CYBER ORGANIZATIONS, 
JOINT MISSION OPERATIONS CENTERS, AND CYBER OPERATIONS-INTEGRATED 
PLANNING ELEMENTS.
    (a) Study.--
        (1) In general.--The Principal Cyber Advisor of the Department 
    of Defense shall conduct a study to determine the optimal strategy 
    for structuring and manning elements of the following:
            (A) Joint Force Headquarters-Cyber organizations.
            (B) Joint Mission Operations Centers.
            (C) Cyber Operations-Integrated Planning Elements.
            (D) Joint Cyber Centers.
        (2) Elements.--The study conducted under subsection (a) shall 
    include assessment of the following:
            (A) Operational effects on the military services if the 
        entities listed in subparagraphs (A) through (C) of paragraph 
        (1) are restructured from organizations that are service 
        component organizations to joint organizations.
            (B) Organizational effects on the military services if the 
        billets associated with the entities listed in subparagraphs 
        (A) through (C) of paragraph (1) are transferred to United 
        States Cyber Command and designated as joint billets for joint 
        qualification purposes.
            (C) Operational and organizational effects on the military 
        services, United States Cyber Command, other combatant 
        commands, and the Joint Staff if the entities listed in 
        subparagraphs (A) through (D) of paragraph (1) are realigned, 
        restructured, or consolidated.
    (b) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Principal Cyber Advisor shall submit to 
    the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on 
    Armed Services of the House of Representatives a report on the 
    study conducted under subsection (a).
        (2) Contents.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) shall 
    contain the following:
            (A) The findings of the Principal Cyber Advisor with 
        respect to the study conducted under subsection (a).
            (B) Details of the operational and organizational effects 
        assessed under subsection (a)(2).
            (C) A plan to carry out the transfer described in 
        subsection (a)(2)(B) and the associated costs, as appropriate.
            (D) A plan to realign, restructure, or consolidate the 
        entities listed in subparagraphs (A) through (D) of subsection 
        (a)(1).
            (E) Such other matters as the Principal Cyber Advisor 
        considers appropriate.
SEC. 1657. CYBER GOVERNANCE STRUCTURES AND PRINCIPAL CYBER ADVISORS ON 
MILITARY CYBER FORCE MATTERS.
    (a) Designation.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, each of the secretaries of the military 
    departments, in consultation with the service chiefs, shall appoint 
    an independent Principal Cyber Advisor for each service to act as 
    the principal advisor to the relevant secretary on all cyber 
    matters affecting that military service.
        (2) Nature of position.--Each Principal Cyber Advisor position 
    under paragraph (1) shall--
            (A) be a senior civilian leadership position, filled by a 
        senior member of the Senior Executive Service, not lower than 
        the equivalent of a 3-star general officer, or by exception a 
        comparable military officer with extensive cyber experience;
            (B) exclusively occupy the Principal Cyber Advisor position 
        and not assume any other position or responsibility in the 
        relevant military department;
            (C) be independent of the relevant service's chief 
        information officer; and
            (D) report directly to and advise the secretary of the 
        relevant military department and advise the relevant service's 
        senior uniformed officer.
        (3) Notification.--Each of the secretaries of the military 
    departments shall notify the Committees on Armed Services of the 
    Senate and House of Representatives of his or her Principal Cyber 
    Advisor appointment. In the case that the appointee is a military 
    officer, the notification shall include a justification for the 
    selection and an explanation of the appointee's ability to execute 
    the responsibilities of the Principal Cyber Advisor.
    (b) Responsibilities of Principal Cyber Advisors.--Each Principal 
Cyber Advisor under subsection (a) shall be responsible for advising 
both the secretary of the relevant military department and the senior 
uniformed military officer of the relevant military service and 
implementing the Department of Defense Cyber Strategy within the 
service by coordinating and overseeing the execution of the service's 
policies and programs relevant to the following:
        (1) The recruitment, resourcing, and training of military 
    cyberspace operations forces, assessment of these forces against 
    standardized readiness metrics, and maintenance of these forces at 
    standardized readiness levels.
        (2) Acquisition of offensive, defensive, and Department of 
    Defense Information Networks cyber capabilities for military 
    cyberspace operations.
        (3) Cybersecurity management and operations.
        (4) Acquisition of cybersecurity tools and capabilities, 
    including those used by cybersecurity service providers.
        (5) Evaluating, improving, and enforcing a culture of 
    cybersecurity warfighting and accountability for cybersecurity and 
    cyberspace operations.
        (6) Cybersecurity and related supply chain risk management of 
    the industrial base.
        (7) Cybersecurity of Department of Defense information systems, 
    information technology services, and weapon systems, including the 
    incorporation of cybersecurity threat information as part of secure 
    development processes, cybersecurity testing, and the mitigation of 
    cybersecurity risks.
    (c) Coordination.--To ensure service compliance with the Department 
of Defense Cyber Strategy, each Principal Cyber Advisor under 
subsection (a) shall work in close coordination with the following:
        (1) Service chief information officers.
        (2) Service cyber component commanders.
        (3) Principal Cyber Advisor to the Secretary of Defense.
        (4) Department of Defense Chief Information Officer.
        (5) Defense Digital Service.
    (d) Budget Certification Authority.--
        (1) In general.--Each of the secretaries of the military 
    departments shall require service components with responsibilities 
    associated with cyberspace operations forces, offensive or 
    defensive cyberspace operations and capabilities, and cyberspace 
    issues relevant to the duties specified in subsection (b) to 
    transmit the proposed budget for such responsibilities for a fiscal 
    year and for the period covered by the future-years defense program 
    submitted to Congress under section 221 of title 10, United States 
    Code, for that fiscal year to the relevant service's Principal 
    Cyber Advisor for review under subparagraph (B) before submitting 
    the proposed budget to the department's comptroller.
        (2) Review.--Each Principal Cyber Advisor under subsection 
    (a)(1) shall review each proposed budget transmitted under 
    paragraph (1) and submit to the secretary of the relevant military 
    department a report containing the comments of the Principal Cyber 
    Advisor with respect to all such proposed budgets, together with 
    the certification of the Principal Cyber Advisor regarding whether 
    each proposed budget is adequate.
        (3) Report.--Not later than March 31 of each year, each of the 
    secretaries of the military departments shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report specifying each proposed 
    budget for the subsequent fiscal year contained in the most-recent 
    report submitted under paragraph (2) that the Principal Cyber 
    Advisor did not certify to be adequate. The report of the secretary 
    shall include a discussion of the actions that the secretary took 
    or proposes to take, together with any additional comments that the 
    Secretary considers appropriate regarding the adequacy or 
    inadequacy of the proposed budgets.
    (e) Principal Cyber Advisors' Briefing to Congress.--Not later than 
February 1, 2021, and biannually thereafter, each Principal Cyber 
Advisor under subsection (a) shall brief the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and House of Representatives on that Advisor's 
activities and ability to perform the functions specified in subsection 
(b).
    (f) Review of Current Responsibilities.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than January 1, 2021, each of the 
    secretaries of the military departments shall review the relevant 
    military department's current governance model for cybersecurity 
    with respect to current authorities and responsibilities.
        (2) Elements.--Each review under paragraph (1) shall include 
    the following:
            (A) An assessment of whether additional changes beyond the 
        appointment of a Principal Cyber Advisor pursuant to subsection 
        (a) are required.
            (B) Consideration of whether the current governance 
        structure and assignment of authorities--
                (i) enable effective governance;
                (ii) enable effective Chief Information Officer and 
            Chief Information Security Officer action;
                (iii) are adequately consolidated so that the authority 
            and responsibility for cybersecurity risk management are 
            clear and at an appropriate level of seniority;
                (iv) provide authority to a single individual to 
            certify compliance of Department of Defense information 
            systems and information technology services with all 
            current cybersecurity standards; and
                (v) support efficient coordination across the military 
            services, the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the 
            Defense Information Systems Agency, and United States Cyber 
            Command.
        (3) Briefing.--Not later than October 1, 2020, each of the 
    secretaries of the military departments shall brief the Committees 
    on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives on the 
    findings of the Secretary with respect to the review conducted by 
    the Secretary pursuant to paragraph (1).
SEC. 1658. DESIGNATION OF TEST NETWORKS FOR TESTING AND ACCREDITATION 
OF CYBERSECURITY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES.
    (a) Designation.--Not later than April 1, 2020, the Secretary of 
Defense shall designate, for use by the Defense Information Systems 
Agency and such other components of the Department of Defense as the 
Secretary considers appropriate, three test networks for the testing 
and accreditation of cybersecurity products and services.
    (b) Requirements.--The networks designated under subsection (a) 
shall--
        (1) be of sufficient scale to realistically test cybersecurity 
    products and services;
        (2) feature substantially different architectures and 
    configurations;
        (3) be live, operational networks; and
        (4) feature cybersecurity processes, tools, and technologies 
    that are appropriate for test purposes and representative of the 
    processes, tools, and technologies that are widely used throughout 
    the Department.
    (c) Access.--Upon request, information generated in the testing and 
accreditation of cybersecurity products and services shall be made 
available to the Office of the Director, Operational Test and 
Evaluation.
SEC. 1659. CONSORTIA OF UNIVERSITIES TO ADVISE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE ON 
CYBERSECURITY MATTERS.
    (a) Establishment and Function.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
establish one or more consortia of universities to assist the Secretary 
on cybersecurity matters relating to the following:
        (1) To provide the Secretary a formal mechanism to communicate 
    with consortium or consortia members regarding the Department of 
    Defense's cybersecurity strategic plans, cybersecurity 
    requirements, and priorities for basic and applied cybersecurity 
    research.
        (2) To advise the Secretary on the needs of academic 
    institutions related to cybersecurity and research conducted on 
    behalf of the Department and provide feedback to the Secretary from 
    members of the consortium or consortia.
        (3) To serve as a focal point or focal points for the Secretary 
    and the Department for the academic community on matters related to 
    cybersecurity, cybersecurity research, conceptual and academic 
    developments in cybersecurity, and opportunities for closer 
    collaboration between academia and the Department.
        (4) To provide to the Secretary access to the expertise of the 
    institutions of the consortium or consortia on matters relating to 
    cybersecurity.
        (5) To align the efforts of such members in support of the 
    Department.
    (b) Membership.--The consortium or consortia established under 
subsection (a) shall be open to all universities that have been 
designated as centers of academic excellence by the Director of the 
National Security Agency or the Secretary of Homeland Security.
    (c) Organization.--
        (1) Designation of administrative chair and terms.--For each 
    consortium established under subsection (a), the Secretary of 
    Defense, based on recommendations from the members of the 
    consortium, shall designate one member of the consortium to 
    function as an administrative chair of the consortium for a term 
    with a specific duration specified by the Secretary.
        (2) Subsequent terms.--No member of a consortium designated 
    under paragraph (1) may serve as the administrative chair of that 
    consortium for two consecutive terms.
        (3) Duties of administrative chair.--Each administrative chair 
    designated under paragraph (1) for a consortium shall--
            (A) act as the leader of the consortium for the term 
        specified by the Secretary under paragraph (1);
            (B) be the liaison between the consortium and the 
        Secretary;
            (C) distribute requests from the Secretary for advice and 
        assistance to appropriate members of the consortium and 
        coordinate responses back to the Secretary; and
            (D) act as a clearinghouse for Department of Defense 
        requests relating to assistance on matters relating to 
        cybersecurity and to provide feedback to the Secretary from 
        members of the consortium.
        (4) Executive committee.--For each consortium, the Secretary, 
    in consultation with the administrative chair, may form an 
    executive committee comprised of university representatives to 
    assist the chair with the management and functions of the 
    consortia. Executive committee institutions may not serve 
    consecutive terms before all other consortium institutions have 
    been afforded the opportunity to hold the position.
    (d) Consultation.--The Secretary, or a senior level designee, shall 
meet with each consortium not less frequently than twice per year, or 
at a periodicity agreed to between the Department and each such 
consortium.
    (e) Procedures.--The Secretary shall establish procedures for 
organizations within the Department to access the work product produced 
by and the research, capabilities, and expertise of a consortium 
established under subsection (a) and the universities that constitute 
such consortium.
SEC. 1660. JOINT ASSESSMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CYBER RED TEAM 
CAPABILITIES, CAPACITY, DEMAND, AND REQUIREMENTS.
    (a) Joint Assessment Required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in 
coordination with the Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
Defense, Principal Cyber Advisor, and the Director of Operational Test 
and Evaluation--
        (1) conduct a joint assessment of Department cyber red team 
    capabilities, capacity, demand, and future requirements that affect 
    the Department's ability to develop, test, and maintain secure 
    systems in a cyber environment; and
        (2) brief the congressional defense committees on the results 
    of the joint assessment.
    (b) Elements.--The joint assessment required by subsection (a)(1) 
shall--
        (1) specify demand for cyber red team support for acquisition 
    and operations;
        (2) specify shortfalls in meeting demand and future 
    requirements, disaggregated by the Department of Defense component 
    or agency and by military department;
        (3) examine funding and retention initiatives to increase cyber 
    red team capacity to meet demand and future requirements identified 
    to support the testing, training, and development communities;
        (4) examine the feasibility and benefit of developing and 
    procuring a common Red Team Integrated Capabilities Stack that 
    better utilizes increased capacity of cyber ranges and better 
    models the capabilities and tactics, techniques, and procedures of 
    adversaries;
        (5) examine the establishment of oversight and assessment 
    metrics for Department cyber red teams;
        (6) assess the implementation of common development efforts for 
    tools, techniques, and training;
        (7) assess potential industry and academic partnerships and 
    services;
        (8) assess the mechanisms and procedures in place to deconflict 
    red-team activities and defensive cyber operations on active 
    networks;
        (9) assess the use of Department cyber personnel in training as 
    red team support;
        (10) assess the use of industry and academic partners and 
    contractors as red team support and the cost- and resource-
    effectiveness of such support; and
        (11) assess the need for permanent, high-end dedicated red-
    teaming activities to model sophisticated adversaries' attacking 
    critical Department systems and infrastructure.

                       Subtitle D--Nuclear Forces

SEC. 1661. CONFORMING AMENDMENT TO COUNCIL ON OVERSIGHT OF THE NATIONAL 
LEADERSHIP COMMAND, CONTROL, AND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM.
    Section 171a of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``, Technology, and Logistics'' each place it appears and 
inserting ``and Sustainment''.
SEC. 1662. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO NUCLEAR COMMAND, 
CONTROL, AND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM.
    (a) Duties and Powers of Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition 
and Sustainment.--Section 133b(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraphs (4), (5), (6), and (7) as 
    paragraphs (5), (6), (7), and (8), respectively;
        (2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
    paragraph (4):
        ``(4) establishing policies for, and providing oversight, 
    guidance, and coordination with respect to, the nuclear command, 
    control, and communications system;''; and
        (3) in paragraph (6), as redesignated by paragraph (1), by 
    inserting after ``overseeing the modernization of nuclear forces'' 
    the following: ``, including the nuclear command, control, and 
    communications system,''.
    (b) Duties and Responsibilities of Chief Information Officer.--
Section 142(b)(1) of such title is amended--
        (1) by striking subparagraph (G); and
        (2) by redesignating subparagraphs (H) and (I) as subparagraphs 
    (G) and (H), respectively.
SEC. 1663. BRIEFINGS ON MEETINGS HELD BY NUCLEAR WEAPONS COUNCIL.
    Section 179 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Semiannual Briefings.--(1) Not later than February 1 and 
August 1 of each year, the Council shall provide to the congressional 
defense committees a briefing on, with respect to the six-month period 
preceding the briefing--
        ``(A) the dates on which the Council met; and
        ``(B) except as provided by paragraph (2), a summary of any 
    decisions made by the Council pursuant to subsection (d) at each 
    such meeting and the rationale for and options that informed such 
    decisions.
    ``(2) The Council shall not be required to include in a briefing 
under paragraph (1) the matters described in subparagraph (B) of that 
paragraph with respect to decisions of the Council relating to the 
budget of the President for a fiscal year if the budget for that fiscal 
year has not been submitted to Congress under section 1105 of title 31 
as of the date of the briefing.''.
SEC. 1664. CONSIDERATION OF BUDGET MATTERS AT MEETINGS OF NUCLEAR 
WEAPONS COUNCIL.
    (a) Attendance.--
        (1) Requirement.--Except as provided by subsection (b), each 
    official described in paragraph (2) shall attend the meetings of 
    the Nuclear Weapons Council established by section 179 of title 10, 
    United States Code, and the meetings of the Standing and Safety 
    Committee of the Council, or such a successor committee. Each such 
    official shall attend such meetings as advisors on matters within 
    the authority and expertise of the official.
        (2) Officials described.--The officials described in this 
    paragraph are each of the following officials (or the designees of 
    the officials):
            (A) The Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation 
        of the Department of Defense.
            (B) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget of 
        the National Nuclear Security Administration.
            (C) The Director for Cost Estimating and Program Evaluation 
        of the National Nuclear Security Administration.
            (D) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
    (b) Exception.--On a case-by-case basis, the Chairman of the 
Nuclear Weapons Council, without delegation, may exclude the attendance 
of an official at a meeting pursuant to subsection (a) because of 
specific requirements relating to classified information or other 
exigent circumstances as determined by the Chairman.
SEC. 1665. IMPROVEMENT TO ANNUAL REPORT ON THE MODERNIZATION OF THE 
NUCLEAR WEAPONS ENTERPRISE.
    (a) Extension.--Subsection (a) of section 1043 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 
Stat. 1576), as most recently amended by section 1670 of the John S. 
McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public 
Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2157), is further amended in paragraph (1) by 
striking ``2023'' and inserting ``2024''.
    (b) Acquisition Costs.--Subsection (b)(1) of such section is 
amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``; and'' and inserting 
    the following: ``, including an estimate of the acquisition costs 
    during such period for programs relating to such life extension, 
    modernization, or replacement;'';
        (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking the end period and 
    inserting ``; and''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(D) an estimate of the relative percentage of total 
        acquisition costs of the military departments and of the 
        Department of Defense during such period represented by the 
        acquisition costs estimated under subparagraph (B).''.
    (c) Transfer of Provision.--
        (1) Codification.--Such section 1043, as amended by subsections 
    (a) and (b), is--
            (A) transferred to chapter 24 of title 10, United States 
        Code;
            (B) inserted after section 492;
            (C) redesignated as section 492a; and
            (D) amended--
                (i) in the enumerator, by striking ``sec.'' and 
            inserting ``Sec. ''; and
                (ii) in the section heading--

                    (I) by striking the period at the end; and
                    (II) by conforming the typeface and typestyle, 
                including capitalization, to the typeface and typestyle 
                as used in the section heading of section 491 of such 
                title.

        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 24 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
    inserting after the item relating to section 492 the following new 
    item:

``492a. Annual report on the plan for the nuclear weapons stockpile, 
          nuclear weapons complex, nuclear weapons delivery systems, and 
          nuclear weapons command and control system.''.
SEC. 1666. EXPANSION OF OFFICIALS REQUIRED TO CONDUCT BIENNIAL 
ASSESSMENTS OF DELIVERY PLATFORMS FOR NUCLEAR WEAPONS AND NUCLEAR 
COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM.
    Section 492(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
    semicolon;
        (2) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting ``; and''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(4) the Commander of the United States Air Forces in 
    Europe.''.
SEC. 1667. EXTENSION OF ANNUAL BRIEFING ON COSTS OF FORWARD-DEPLOYING 
NUCLEAR WEAPONS IN EUROPE.
    Section 1656(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1124) is amended by 
striking ``2021'' and inserting ``2024''.
SEC. 1668. ELIMINATION OF CONVENTIONAL REQUIREMENT FOR LONG-RANGE 
STANDOFF WEAPON.
    Subsection (a) of section 217 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 706), as amended 
by section 1662 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2152), is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Long-range Standoff Weapon.--The Secretary of the Air Force 
shall develop a follow-on air-launched cruise missile to the AGM-86 
that--
        ``(1) achieves initial operating capability for nuclear 
    missions prior to the retirement of the nuclear-armed AGM-86; and
        ``(2) is capable of internal carriage and employment for 
    nuclear missions on the next-generation long-range strike 
    bomber.''.
SEC. 1669. BRIEFING ON LONG-RANGE STANDOFF WEAPON AND SEA-LAUNCHED 
CRUISE MISSILE.
    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, in 
consultation with the Administrator for Nuclear Security, shall provide 
to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a briefing on potential opportunities--
        (1) to increase commonality between the long-range standoff 
    weapon and the sea-launched cruise missile; and
        (2) to leverage, in the development of the sea-launched cruise 
    missile, technologies developed, or under development as of the 
    date of the briefing, as part of the long-range standoff weapon 
    program.
SEC. 1670. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR MOBILE 
VARIANT OF GROUND-BASED STRATEGIC DETERRENT MISSILE.
    Section 1664 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2615), as most recently 
amended by section 1666 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 
2155), is further amended by striking ``for any of fiscal years 2017 
through 2020'' and inserting ``for any of fiscal years 2017 through 
2024''.
SEC. 1671. REPORTS ON DEVELOPMENT OF GROUND-BASED STRATEGIC DETERRENT 
WEAPON.
    (a) Annual Report Required.--Not later than February 15, 2020, and 
annually thereafter until the date on which the ground-based strategic 
deterrent weapon receives Milestone C approval (as defined in section 
2366 of title 10, United States Code), the Secretary of the Air Force, 
in coordination with the Administrator for Nuclear Security and the 
Chairman of the Nuclear Weapons Council established by section 179 of 
title 10, United States Code, shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report describing the joint development of the ground-
based strategic deterrent weapon, including the missile developed by 
the Air Force and the W87-1 warhead modification program conducted by 
the National Nuclear Security Administration.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) An estimate of the date on which the ground-based strategic 
    deterrent weapon will reach initial operating capability.
        (2) A description of any development milestones for the missile 
    developed by the Air Force or the warhead developed by the National 
    Nuclear Security Administration that depend on corresponding 
    progress at the other agency.
        (3) A description of coordination efforts between the Air Force 
    and the National Nuclear Security Administration during the year 
    preceding submission of the report.
        (4) A description of any schedule delays projected by the Air 
    Force or the National Nuclear Security Administration, including 
    delays related to infrastructure capacity and subcomponent 
    production, associated costs, and the anticipated effect such 
    delays would have on the schedule of work of the other agency.
        (5) Plans to mitigate the effects of any delays described in 
    paragraph (4).
    (c) Additional Report.--If the Air Force receives only one bid for 
the engineering and manufacturing development phase of the ground-based 
strategic deterrent program, the Secretary shall, not later than 60 
days after awarding a contract for that phase, submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report assessing the risks and costs 
resulting from receiving only one bid for that phase and plans to 
mitigate such risks and costs.
    (d) Form.--Each report required by subsection (a) or (c) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 1672. PROHIBITION ON REDUCTION OF THE INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC 
MISSILES OF THE UNITED STATES.
    (a) Prohibition.--Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2020 
for the Department of Defense may be obligated or expended for the 
following, and the Department may not otherwise take any action to do 
the following:
        (1) Reduce, or prepare to reduce, the responsiveness or alert 
    level of the intercontinental ballistic missiles of the United 
    States.
        (2) Reduce, or prepare to reduce, the quantity of deployed 
    intercontinental ballistic missiles of the United States to a 
    number less than 400.
    (b) Exception.--The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply 
to any of the following activities:
        (1) The maintenance or sustainment of intercontinental 
    ballistic missiles.
        (2) Ensuring the safety, security, or reliability of 
    intercontinental ballistic missiles.
SEC. 1673. INDEPENDENT STUDY ON POLICY OF NO-FIRST-USE OF NUCLEAR 
WEAPONS.
    (a) Study.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter into a 
contract with a federally funded research and development center to 
conduct a study on the United States adopting a policy to not use 
nuclear weapons first.
    (b) Matters Included.--The study under subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) An assessment of the benefits and risks of adopting a 
    policy to not use nuclear weapons first to reduce the risk of 
    miscalculation in a crisis.
        (2) An assessment of the views of the allies of the United 
    States with respect to the United States adopting such a policy, 
    including whether, and if so how, any concerns regarding such a 
    policy could be mitigated, including the value of engaging such 
    allies to offer credible extended deterrence assurances.
        (3) An assessment of which foreign countries have stated or 
    adopted such a policy, including the credibility of any such 
    policies and how they affect planning and operations.
        (4) An assessment of how adversaries of the United States might 
    view a declaration of such a policy.
        (5) An assessment of the benefits and risks of such a policy 
    with respect to nuclear nonproliferation.
        (6) An assessment of changes in force posture and force 
    requirements, if any, and costs or savings, that such a policy 
    would require or allow.
        (7) Any other matters the Secretary determines appropriate.
    (c) Submission to DOD.--Not later than 240 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the federally funded research and 
development center shall submit to the Secretary the study under 
subsection (a).
    (d) Submission to Congress.--
        (1) Interim briefing.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
    of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall provide to the 
    appropriate congressional committees an interim briefing on the 
    study under subsection (a).
        (2) Study.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
    appropriate congressional committees the study under subsection 
    (a), without change.
    (e) Form.--The study under subsection (a) shall be submitted under 
subsections (c) and (d)(2) in unclassified form, but may include a 
classified annex.
    (f) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees; and
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
    Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
    Senate.
SEC. 1674. INDEPENDENT STUDY ON RISKS OF NUCLEAR TERRORISM AND NUCLEAR 
WAR.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall enter into an 
agreement with the National Academy of Sciences to conduct a study on--
        (1) whether a risk assessment framework is applicable to 
    determining the potential risks of nuclear terrorism and nuclear 
    war; and
        (2) the implications for national security of assumptions in 
    nuclear policy and doctrine.
    (b) Matters Included.--The study under subsection (a) shall--
        (1) identify risks described in paragraph (1) of that 
    subsection;
        (2) assess prior literature on such risks;
        (3) assess the role that quantitative and nonquantitative 
    analytical methods can play in assessing such risks, including the 
    limitations of such analysis;
        (4) identify and examine the assumptions about nuclear risks 
    that underlie the national security strategy of the United States; 
    and
        (5) describe the consequences of the methods and assumptions 
    that have been, are, or could be used in developing the nuclear 
    security strategy of the United States.
    (c) Recommendations.--Based on findings under subsection (b), the 
study may provide recommendations with respect to improving the use of 
a risk assessment framework described in subsection (a)(1).
    (d) Submission.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees the study under subsection (a), without change.
    (e) Form.--The study shall be submitted in unclassified form, but 
may include a classified annex.
SEC. 1675. REPORT ON MILITARY-TO-MILITARY DIALOGUE TO REDUCE RISKS OF 
MISCALCULATION LEADING TO NUCLEAR WAR.
    Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of 
State, shall submit to the congressional defense committees, the 
Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the 
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report containing the 
following:
        (1) A description of--
            (A) current discussions between the United States Armed 
        Forces and military counterparts from governments of foreign 
        countries to reduce the risks of miscalculation, unintended 
        consequences, or accidents that could precipitate the use of 
        one or more nuclear weapons; and
            (B) bilateral and multilateral agreements to which the 
        United States is a party that provide for or facilitate 
        military-to-military dialogue to address such risks.
        (2) An assessment of the extent to which, if any, that 
    military-to-military dialogue to reduce such risks is consistent 
    with or supportive of other efforts conducted between the United 
    States Government and foreign governments, or between 
    nongovernmental organizations and foreign counterparts, to reduce 
    such risks.
        (3) An assessment conducted jointly by the Secretary of Defense 
    and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and in consultation 
    with the Director of National Intelligence--
            (A) on the risks and benefits of establishing, in addition 
        to the discussions described in paragraph (1)(A), military-to-
        military discussions with the Russian Federation, Iran, the 
        People's Republic of China, and North Korea to address the 
        risks described in that paragraph, including with respect to 
        policy, cost, and operational matters; and
            (B) of the willingness of the governments of those 
        countries to engage in such discussions.
SEC. 1676. REPORT ON NUCLEAR FORCES OF THE UNITED STATES AND NEAR-PEER 
COUNTRIES.
    (a) Report.--Not later than February 15, 2020, the Secretary of 
Defense, in coordination with the Director of National Intelligence, 
shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the 
nuclear forces of the United States and near-peer countries.
    (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
        (1) An assessment of the current and planned nuclear systems of 
    the United States, including with respect to research and 
    development timelines, deployment timelines, and force size.
        (2) An assessment of the current and planned nuclear systems of 
    the People's Republic of China, including with respect to research 
    and development timelines, deployment timelines, and force size.
        (3) An assessment of the current and planned nuclear systems of 
    the Russian Federation, including with respect to research and 
    development timelines, deployment timelines, and force size, 
    including--
            (A) deployed nuclear weapons not covered by the New START 
        Treaty;
            (B) nuclear weapons in development that would not be 
        covered by the New START Treaty; and
            (C) strategic nuclear weapons that are not deployed.
    (c) Form.--The report under subsection (a) shall be submitted in 
unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term ``appropriate 
    committees of Congress'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the Select 
        Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the Permanent 
        Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
        Representatives.
        (2) New start treaty.--The term ``New START Treaty'' means the 
    Treaty between the United States of America and the Russian 
    Federation on Measures for the Further Reduction and Limitation of 
    Strategic Offensive Arms, signed at Prague April 8, 2010, and 
    entered into force February 5, 2011.
SEC. 1677. REPORT ON OPERATION OF CONVENTIONAL FORCES OF MILITARY 
DEPARTMENTS UNDER EMPLOYMENT OR THREAT OF EMPLOYMENT OF NUCLEAR 
WEAPONS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
the Secretary of the Air Force, the Secretary of the Army, and the 
Secretary of the Navy, shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report detailing the views of each such Secretary on the 
ability of conventional forces under the authority of that Secretary to 
operate effectively under employment or threat of employment of nuclear 
weapons by the United States, an ally of the United States, or an 
adversary of the United States, including with respect to--
        (1) measures taken to maximize the likelihood that such forces 
    could continue to operate;
        (2) risks or gaps in the capabilities of such forces that would 
    result from the employment or threat of employment of nuclear 
    weapons; and
        (3) how the capabilities and limitations of such forces would 
    impact decisions to continue or terminate operations.
    (b) Form of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in classified form but shall be accompanied by an 
unclassified summary appropriate for release to the public.
SEC. 1678. REPORT ON OPERATION OF CONVENTIONAL FORCES OF CERTAIN 
COMBATANT COMMANDS UNDER EMPLOYMENT OR THREAT OF EMPLOYMENT OF NUCLEAR 
WEAPONS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in 
coordination with the Commander of the United States European Command, 
the Commander of the United States Indo-Pacific Command, and the 
Commander of the United States Strategic Command, shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report detailing the views of the 
Chairman and each such Commander on the ability of conventional forces 
under the authority of that Commander to execute contingency plans 
under employment or threat of employment of nuclear weapons by the 
United States, an ally of the United States, or an adversary of the 
United States, including with respect to--
        (1) measures taken to maximize the likelihood that such forces 
    could continue to operate;
        (2) risks or gaps in the capabilities of such forces that would 
    result from the employment or threat of employment of nuclear 
    weapons; and
        (3) how the capabilities and limitations of such forces would 
    impact decisions to continue or terminate operations.
    (b) Form of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in classified form but shall be accompanied by an 
unclassified summary appropriate for release to the public.
SEC. 1679. BRIEFINGS ON PLAN FOR FUTURE-SYSTEMS-LEVEL ARCHITECTURE OF 
NUCLEAR COMMAND, CONTROL, AND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than February 15, 2020, and every 180 
days thereafter through fiscal year 2025, the Commander of the United 
States Strategic Command, in coordination with the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, shall provide to the 
congressional defense committees a briefing on the plan of the 
Department of Defense for the future-systems-level architecture of the 
nuclear command, control, and communications systems.
    (b) Elements.--Each briefing required by subsection (a) shall 
address the following:
        (1) Near- and long-term plans and options considered as of the 
    date of the briefing in determining the future-systems-level 
    architecture of the nuclear command, control, and communications 
    systems, including options to maximize resilience of such systems.
        (2) Requirements, including with respect to cybersecurity, 
    survivability, and reliability, including levels of redundancy.
        (3) The risks and benefits of replicating the legacy 
    architecture for such systems.
        (4) The risks and benefits of using different architectures for 
    such systems, including using hosted payloads in space payloads.
        (5) Security considerations for such systems, including 
    classification and requirements and plans to ensure supply chain 
    security.
        (6) Classification options and decisions with respect to such 
    architecture and systems to deter attacks on such systems.
        (7) Timelines and general cost estimates for long-term 
    investments in such systems, to the extent possible at the time of 
    the briefing.
        (8) Risks and benefits of pursuing agreements with adversaries 
    of the United States, including potential agreements not to target 
    nuclear command, control, and communications systems through 
    kinetic, nonkinetic, or cyber attacks.
        (9) Required levels of civilian and military staffing within 
    the United States Strategic Command, the Office of the Secretary of 
    Defense, and any other relevant component of the Department of 
    Defense to evaluate or execute such architecture, and an estimate 
    of when such levels of staffing will be achieved.
        (10) Any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate.
SEC. 1680. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON NUCLEAR DETERRENCE COMMITMENTS OF THE 
UNITED STATES.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) credible extended deterrence commitments make key 
    contributions to the security of the United States, international 
    stability, and the nonproliferation objectives of the United 
    States;
        (2) the nuclear forces of the United States, as well as the 
    independent nuclear forces of other members of the North Atlantic 
    Treaty Organization (in this section referred to as ``NATO''), 
    continue to play a critical role in the security of the NATO 
    alliance;
        (3) United States forward-deployed nuclear weapons and dual-
    capable aircraft in Europe contribute to the assurance of allies of 
    the United States of the commitment of the United States to their 
    security and to the deterrence and defense posture of NATO; and
        (4) nuclear-certified F-35A aircraft will provide the most 
    advanced nuclear fighter capability in the current and future anti-
    access area denial environments.

                  Subtitle E--Missile Defense Programs

SEC. 1681. NATIONAL MISSILE DEFENSE POLICY.
    (a) Policy.--Subsection (a) of section 1681 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 10 U.S.C. 
2431 note) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Policy.--It is the policy of the United States to--
        ``(1) maintain and improve, with funding subject to the annual 
    authorization of appropriations and the annual appropriation of 
    funds for National Missile Defense--
            ``(A) an effective, layered missile defense system capable 
        of defending the territory of the United States against the 
        developing and increasingly complex missile threat posed by 
        rogue states; and
            ``(B) an effective regional missile defense system capable 
        of defending the allies, partners, and deployed forces of the 
        United States against increasingly complex missile threats; and
        ``(2) rely on nuclear deterrence to address more sophisticated 
    and larger quantity near-peer intercontinental missile threats to 
    the homeland of the United States.''.
    (b) Redesignation Requirement.--Not later than the date on which 
the President submits to Congress the annual budget request of the 
President for fiscal year 2021 pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, 
United States Code, the Secretary of Defense shall, as the Secretary 
considers appropriate, redesignate all strategies, policies, programs, 
and systems under the jurisdiction of the Secretary to reflect that 
missile defense programs of the United States defend against ballistic, 
cruise, and hypersonic missiles in all phases of flight.
SEC. 1682. DEVELOPMENT OF SPACE-BASED BALLISTIC MISSILE INTERCEPT 
LAYER.
    Section 1688 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 10 U.S.C. 2431 note) is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (c); and
        (2) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (c).
SEC. 1683. DEVELOPMENT OF HYPERSONIC AND BALLISTIC MISSILE TRACKING 
SPACE SENSOR PAYLOAD.
    (a) Development.--Section 1683 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 10 U.S.C. 
2431 note) is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h), 
    as subsections (e), (f), (g), (h), and (j), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
    subsection (d):
    ``(d) Hypersonic and Ballistic Missile Tracking Space Sensor 
Payload.--
        ``(1) Development.--The Director of the Missile Defense Agency, 
    in coordination with the Director of the Space Development Agency 
    and the Secretary of the Air Force, as appropriate, shall--
            ``(A) develop a hypersonic and ballistic missile tracking 
        space sensor payload; and
            ``(B) include such payload as a component of the sensor 
        architecture developed under subsection (a).
        ``(2) Assignment of primary responsibility.--Not later than 30 
    days after the date of the enactment of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, the Secretary of Defense 
    shall--
            ``(A) assign the Director of the Missile Defense Agency 
        with the principal responsibility for the development and 
        deployment of a hypersonic and ballistic tracking space sensor 
        payload; and
            ``(B) submit to the congressional defense committees a 
        certification of such assignment.''.
    (b) Updated Plan.--Such section is further amended by inserting 
after subsection (h), as redesignated by subsection (a), the following 
new subsection:
    ``(i) Updated Plan.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2020, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees an update to the plan under subsection (h), 
including with respect to the following:
        ``(1) How the Director of the Missile Defense Agency, the 
    Director of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, the 
    Secretary of the Air Force, and the Director of the Space 
    Development Agency, will each participate in the development of the 
    sensor architecture under subsection (a) and the inclusion of the 
    hypersonic and ballistic missile tracking space sensor payload as a 
    component of such architecture pursuant to subsection (d), with 
    respect to both prototype and operational capabilities, including 
    how each such official will work together to avoid duplication of 
    efforts.
        ``(2) How such payload will address the requirement of the 
    United States Strategic Command for a hypersonic and ballistic 
    missile tracking space sensing capability.
        ``(3) The estimated costs (in accordance with subsection (e)) 
    to develop, acquire, and deploy, and the lifecycle costs to operate 
    and sustain, the payload under subsection (d) and include such 
    payload in the sensor architecture developed under subsection 
    (a).''.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Subsection (h)(1) of such section, as 
redesignated by subsection (a), is amended by striking ``with 
subsection (d)'' and inserting ``with subsection (e)''.
SEC. 1684. MODIFICATIONS TO REQUIRED TESTING BY MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY 
OF GROUND-BASED MIDCOURSE DEFENSE ELEMENT OF BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE 
SYSTEM.
    Section 1689(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2631; 10 U.S.C. 2431 
note) is amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``, when 
    possible,''; and
        (2) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``, including the use of 
    threat-representative countermeasures'' before the period.
SEC. 1685. IRON DOME SHORT-RANGE ROCKET DEFENSE SYSTEM AND ISRAELI 
COOPERATIVE MISSILE DEFENSE PROGRAM CO-DEVELOPMENT AND CO-PRODUCTION.
    (a) Iron Dome Short-Range Rocket Defense System.--
        (1) Availability of funds.--Of the funds authorized to be 
    appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2020 for procurement, 
    Defense-wide, and available for the Missile Defense Agency, not 
    more than $95,000,000 may be provided to the Government of Israel 
    to procure components for the Iron Dome short-range rocket defense 
    system through co-production of such components in the United 
    States by industry of the United States.
        (2) Conditions.--
            (A) Agreement.--Funds described in paragraph (1) for the 
        Iron Dome short-range rocket defense program shall be available 
        subject to the terms and conditions in the Agreement Between 
        the Department of Defense of the United States of America and 
        the Ministry of Defense of the State of Israel Concerning Iron 
        Dome Defense System Procurement, signed on March 5, 2014, as 
        amended to include co-production for Tamir interceptors.
            (B) Certification.--Not later than 30 days prior to the 
        initial obligation of funds described in paragraph (1), the 
        Director of the Missile Defense Agency and the Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall jointly submit 
        to the appropriate congressional committees--
                (i) a certification that the amended bilateral 
            international agreement specified in subparagraph (A) is 
            being implemented as provided in such agreement; and
                (ii) an assessment detailing any risks relating to the 
            implementation of such agreement.
    (b) Israeli Cooperative Missile Defense Program, David's Sling 
Weapon System Co-production.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (3), of the funds 
    authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 for procurement, 
    Defense-wide, and available for the Missile Defense Agency not more 
    than $50,000,000 may be provided to the Government of Israel to 
    procure the David's Sling Weapon System, including for co-
    production of parts and components in the United States by United 
    States industry.
        (2) Agreement.--Provision of funds specified in paragraph (1) 
    shall be subject to the terms and conditions in the bilateral co-
    production agreement, including--
            (A) a one-for-one cash match is made by Israel or in 
        another matching amount that otherwise meets best efforts (as 
        mutually agreed to by the United States and Israel); and
            (B) co-production of parts, components, and all-up rounds 
        (if appropriate) in the United States by United States industry 
        for the David's Sling Weapon System is not less than 50 
        percent.
        (3) Certification and assessment.--The Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit to the 
    appropriate congressional committees--
            (A) a certification that the Government of Israel has 
        demonstrated the successful completion of the knowledge points, 
        technical milestones, and production readiness reviews required 
        by the research, development, and technology agreement and the 
        bilateral co-production agreement for the David's Sling Weapon 
        System; and
            (B) an assessment detailing any risks relating to the 
        implementation of such agreement.
    (c) Israeli Cooperative Missile Defense Program, Arrow 3 Upper Tier 
Interceptor Program Co-Production.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), of the funds 
    authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 for procurement, 
    Defense-wide, and available for the Missile Defense Agency not more 
    than $55,000,000 may be provided to the Government of Israel for 
    the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program, including for co-
    production of parts and components in the United States by United 
    States industry.
        (2) Certification.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit to the appropriate 
    congressional committees a certification that--
            (A) the Government of Israel has demonstrated the 
        successful completion of the knowledge points, technical 
        milestones, and production readiness reviews required by the 
        research, development, and technology agreement for the Arrow 3 
        Upper Tier Interceptor Program;
            (B) funds specified in paragraph (1) will be provided on 
        the basis of a one-for-one cash match made by Israel or in 
        another matching amount that otherwise meets best efforts (as 
        mutually agreed to by the United States and Israel);
            (C) the United States has entered into a bilateral 
        international agreement with Israel that establishes, with 
        respect to the use of such funds--
                (i) in accordance with subparagraph (D), the terms of 
            co-production of parts and components on the basis of the 
            greatest practicable co-production of parts, components, 
            and all-up rounds (if appropriate) by United States 
            industry and minimizes nonrecurring engineering and 
            facilitization expenses to the costs needed for co-
            production;
                (ii) complete transparency on the requirement of Israel 
            for the number of interceptors and batteries that will be 
            procured, including with respect to the procurement plans, 
            acquisition strategy, and funding profiles of Israel;
                (iii) technical milestones for co-production of parts 
            and components and procurement;
                (iv) a joint affordability working group to consider 
            cost reduction initiatives; and
                (v) joint approval processes for third-party sales; and
            (D) the level of co-production described in subparagraph 
        (C)(i) for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program is not 
        less than 50 percent.
    (d) Number.--In carrying out paragraph (2) of subsection (b) and 
paragraph (2) of subsection (c), the Under Secretary may submit--
        (1) one certification covering both the David's Sling Weapon 
    System and the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program; or
        (2) separate certifications for each respective system.
    (e) Timing.--The Under Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees the certification and assessment under subsection 
(b)(3) and the certification under subsection (c)(2) by not later than 
30 days before the funds specified in paragraph (1) of subsections (b) 
and (c) for the respective system covered by the certification are 
provided to the Government of Israel.
    (f) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
        (1) The congressional defense committees.
        (2) The Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
    Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1686. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR LOWER TIER AIR AND 
MISSILE DEFENSE SENSOR.
    (a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2020 for the Army for 
the lower tier air and missile defense sensor, not more than 75 percent 
may be obligated or expended until the Secretary of the Army submits 
the report under subsection (b).
    (b) Report.--The Secretary of the Army shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the test and demonstration 
of lower tier air and missile defense sensors that occurred during the 
third quarter of fiscal year 2019. Such report shall include the 
following:
        (1) An explanation of how the test and demonstration was 
    conducted and what the test and demonstration set out to achieve, 
    including--
            (A) an explanation of the performance specifications used; 
        and
            (B) a description of the emulated threats used in the test 
        and demonstration and how such threats compare to emerging 
        regional air and missile threats.
        (2) An explanation of the capability of the sensor system that 
    the Secretary determined to be the winner of the test and 
    demonstration, including with respect to--
            (A) the capability of such sensor system against key 
        threats and requirements, including whether such sensor system 
        will be delivered with full 360-degree coverage and the ability 
        of such sensor system to detect, track, and surveil targets;
            (B) the estimated procurement and life-cycle costs of 
        operating such sensor system; and
            (C) the cost, timeline, and approach that will be used to 
        integrate the lower tier air and missile defense sensor with 
        other sensors using the Integrated Air and Missile Defense 
        Battle Command System.
        (3) An explanation of whether future performance improvements 
    to the lower tier air and missile defense sensor are conditional on 
    intellectual property and how such improvements will be made if the 
    United States does not own such intellectual property.
SEC. 1687. PLAN FOR THE REDESIGNED KILL VEHICLE REPLACEMENT.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the decision by the Department of Defense to terminate the 
    redesigned kill vehicle contract on August 22, 2019, due to 
    technological problems encountered during development will result 
    in a delay to the fielding of an additional 20 ground-based 
    interceptors at Fort Greely, Alaska, which had been planned to be 
    emplaced by the end of calendar year 2023;
        (2) to ensure that the future next-generation improved homeland 
    defense interceptor program will deliver the required capability, 
    have rigorous technical and acquisition oversight, and maintain 
    schedule milestones, thereby mitigating the risk of similar issues 
    as experienced with the redesigned kill vehicle, the acquisition 
    strategy for such program should be reviewed and jointly approved 
    by both the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering 
    and the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, 
    with input by stakeholders across the Department of Defense prior 
    to proceeding with development efforts and awarding a contract; and
        (3) the Department, including the Missile Defense Agency, 
    should uphold ``fly before you buy'' principles in such new 
    acquisition strategy to ensure the overall system and components 
    have been rigorously flight-tested prior to making procurement 
    decisions.
    (b) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2020 for the Missile 
Defense Agency for the next-generation improved homeland defense 
interceptor, not more than 50 percent may be obligated or expended 
until the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits the report 
under subsection (c).
    (c) Report.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the next-generation 
improved homeland defense interceptor program to replace the redesigned 
kill vehicle. The report shall include the following:
        (1) Updated threat assessments by the intelligence community 
    informing system threshold and objective requirements.
        (2) Updated requirements to address current and emerging 
    threats.
        (3) Technical, programmatic, and cost analyses conducted on 
    courses of action and alternatives to meet capability requirements, 
    including--
            (A) an independent cost estimate for each course of action 
        considered; and
            (B) an evaluation of the technical readiness level of the 
        overall system and the components for each course of action 
        considered.
        (4) Options considered to address reliability efforts of the 
    current fleet, understanding known deficiencies, and the impact of 
    not addressing such efforts and deficiencies until the delivery of 
    the next-generation improved homeland defense interceptors.
        (5) An obsolescence, refurbishment, and sustainment plan for 
    all ground-based interceptor silos, including any impacts to the 
    construction, delivery, and sustainment of missile field 4 located 
    at Fort Greely, Alaska, taking into account the delay to emplacing 
    additional interceptors.
        (6) Possible opportunities as a result of the impacts described 
    in paragraph (4) for improvements to missile fields located at Fort 
    Greely other than missile field 4, including additional 
    infrastructure or components required, and estimated schedules and 
    costs for such opportunities.
        (7) A determination of the appropriate fleet mix of ground-
    based interceptor kill vehicles and boosters to maximize overall 
    system effectiveness and increase capacity and capability, 
    including the costs and benefits of continued inclusion of 
    capability enhancement II block 1 interceptors after the fielding 
    of the next-generation improved homeland defense interceptor.
SEC. 1688. ORGANIZATION, AUTHORITIES, AND BILLETS OF THE MISSILE 
DEFENSE AGENCY.
    (a) Independent Study.--
        (1) Assessment.--In accordance with paragraph (2), the 
    Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter into a contract with a 
    federally funded research and development center to conduct a study 
    assessing--
            (A) the organization of the Missile Defense Agency under 
        the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering 
        pursuant to section 205(b) of title 10, United States Code;
            (B) alternative ways to organize the Agency under other 
        officials of the Department of Defense, including the Under 
        Secretary for Acquisition and Sustainment and any other 
        official of the Department the federally funded research and 
        development center determines appropriate; and
            (C) transitioning the Agency to the standard acquisition 
        process pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 5000, 
        including both the risks and benefits of making such a 
        transition.
        (2) Scope of study.--Before entering into the contract with a 
    federally funded research and development center to conduct the 
    study under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall provide to the 
    congressional defense committees an update on the scope of such 
    study.
        (3) Submission to dod.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
    of the enactment of this Act, the federally funded research and 
    development center shall submit to the Secretary the study 
    conducted under paragraph (1).
        (4) Submission to congress.--Not later than 30 days after the 
    date on which the federally funded research and development center 
    submits to the Secretary the study under paragraph (1), the 
    Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees the 
    study, without change.
    (b) Notification on Changes to Non-standard Acquisition Processes 
and Responsibilities.--
        (1) Requirements.--The Secretary may not make any changes to 
    the missile defense non-standard acquisition processes and 
    responsibilities described in paragraph (2) until the Secretary, 
    without delegation--
            (A) has consulted with the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Research and Engineering, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Policy, the secretaries of the military departments, the 
        Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Commander of United 
        States Strategic Command, the Commander of United States 
        Northern Command, and the Director of the Missile Defense 
        Agency;
            (B) certifies to the congressional defense committees that 
        the Secretary has coordinated the changes with and received the 
        views of the individuals referred to in subparagraph (A);
            (C) submits to the congressional defense committees a 
        report describing the changes, the rationale for the changes, 
        and the views of the individuals referred to in subparagraph 
        (A) with respect to such changes; and
            (D) a period of 120 days has elapsed following the date on 
        which the Secretary submits such report.
        (2) Non-standard acquisition processes and responsibilities 
    described.--The non-standard acquisition processes and 
    responsibilities described in this paragraph are such processes and 
    responsibilities described in--
            (A) the memorandum of the Secretary of Defense titled 
        ``Missile Defense Program Direction'' signed on January 2, 
        2002;
            (B) Department of Defense Directive 5134.09, as in effect 
        on the date of the enactment of this Act; and
            (C) United States Strategic Command Instruction 583-3.
    (c) Limitation on Certain Transfers of Billets.--During fiscal year 
2020, the Secretary of Defense may not transfer civilian or military 
billets from the Missile Defense Agency to any element of the 
Department under the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
Engineering until, for each such transfer--
        (1) the Secretary notifies the congressional defense committees 
    of such proposed transfer; and
        (2) a period of 90 days has elapsed following the date of such 
    notification.
SEC. 1689. ANNUAL ASSESSMENT OF BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEM.
    (a) Annual Assessment.--As part of the annual report of the 
Director of Operational Test and Evaluation submitted to Congress under 
section 139 of title 10, United States Code, the Director shall include 
an assessment of the ballistic missile defense system and all of the 
elements of the system that have been fielded or are planned, as of the 
date of the assessment, including--
        (1) the operational effectiveness, suitability, and 
    survivability of the ballistic missile defense system and the 
    elements of the system that have been fielded or tested; and
        (2) the adequacy and sufficiency of the test program of such 
    system as of the date of the assessment, including with respect to 
    the operational realism of the tests.
    (b) Form.--Each assessment under subsection (a) may be submitted in 
unclassified form, and may include a classified annex.
SEC. 1690. COMMAND AND CONTROL, BATTLE MANAGEMENT, AND COMMUNICATIONS 
PROGRAM.
    (a) Limitation on Sale.--The Director of the Missile Defense Agency 
may not release the command and control, battle management, and 
communications program for export until the date on which the Director 
submits the report under subsection (b).
    (b) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Director shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
Representatives, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a 
report containing the following:
        (1) An explanation of the rationale of the Director for 
    considering to export the command and control, battle management, 
    and communications program (or any variants thereof) in light of 
    the critical role of the program in the strategic national defense 
    of the United States and the allies of the United States against 
    ballistic missile attack.
        (2) The findings of the market research and analysis conducted 
    by the Director regarding exportable command and control solutions 
    for ballistic missile defense, including such solutions that are 
    internationally available.
SEC. 1691. MISSILE DEFENSE INTERCEPTOR SITE IN CONTIGUOUS UNITED 
STATES.
    (a) Report.--Not later than January 31, 2020, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
on the designation made on June 26, 2019, of a preferred potential 
future missile field site in the contiguous United States from the 
sites evaluated pursuant to section 227 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 
1678). The report shall address the following:
        (1) The environmental impact statement prepared pursuant to 
    such section 227.
        (2) The strategic and operational effectiveness of the site, 
    including with respect to the location that is the most 
    advantageous site in providing coverage to the entire contiguous 
    United States, including having the capability to provide shoot-
    assess-shoot coverage to the entire contiguous United States.
        (3) Construction remediation efforts and impacts to the 
    existing environment at the site.
        (4) The existing infrastructure at the site.
        (5) The costs to construct, equip, and operate the site.
    (b) Form.--The report under subsection (a) shall be submitted in 
unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
construed--
        (1) as requiring the Secretary of Defense to begin a military 
    construction project relating to the missile defense site in the 
    contiguous United States; or
        (2) as a statement that there is any current military 
    requirement for such a site.
    (d) Conforming Repeal.--Section 1681 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 
1776) is repealed.
SEC. 1692. INDEPENDENT STUDY ON IMPACTS OF MISSILE DEFENSE DEVELOPMENT 
AND DEPLOYMENT.
    (a) Study.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter into an 
agreement with a federally funded research and development center to 
conduct a study on the impacts of the development and deployment of 
homeland missile defenses of the United States on the security of the 
United States as a whole.
    (b) Matters Included.--The study under subsection (a) shall--
        (1) consider whether security benefits obtained by the 
    deployment of homeland missile defenses of the United States are 
    undermined or counterbalanced by adverse reactions of potential 
    adversaries, including both rogue states and near-peer adversaries; 
    and
        (2) consider the effectiveness of the homeland missile defense 
    efforts of the United States to deter the development of ballistic 
    missiles, in particular by both rogue states and near-peer 
    adversaries.
    (c) Submission.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees the study under subsection (a), without change.
    (d) Form.--The study shall be submitted under subsection (c) in 
unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 1693. REPORT AND BRIEFING ON MULTI-VOLUME KILL CAPABILITY.
    Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, in 
coordination with the Director of the Missile Defense Agency, the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, and the Director 
of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report, and shall provide to such 
committees a briefing, on an assessment of potential roles for a multi-
volume kill capability in a future architecture of the ballistic 
missile defense system. Such report and briefing shall include the 
following:
        (1) An assessment of the current technology readiness level of 
    necessary components and the technology readiness levels needed for 
    an operational system.
        (2) An assessment of the costs and a comprehensive development 
    and testing schedule to deploy a multi-volume kill capability.
        (3) A concept of operations with respect to how a multi-volume 
    kill capability could be employed and how such a capability 
    compares to single-kill ground-based midcourse defense system 
    interceptors.

                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

SEC. 1694. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION FOR PROTECTION OF CERTAIN 
FACILITIES AND ASSETS FROM UNMANNED AIRCRAFT.
    (a) In General.--Subsection (i) of section 130i of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``2020'' both places it appears and 
inserting ``2023''.
    (b) Technical Corrections.--Such section is amended--
        (1) in subsection (i)(1), as amended by subsection (a), by 
    striking ``of subsection (j)(3)'' and inserting ``of subsection 
    (j)(3)(C)''; and
        (2) in subsection (j)(6), by striking ``in'' and all that 
    follows through the period at the end and inserting ``in section 
    44801 of title 49''.
SEC. 1695. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT FOR COMMISSION ON ELECTROMAGNETIC 
PULSE ATTACKS AND SIMILAR EVENTS.
    Section 1691 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1786) is repealed.
SEC. 1696. REPEAL OF REVIEW REQUIREMENT FOR AMMONIUM PERCHLORATE 
REPORT.
    Section 1694 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1792) is amended by striking 
subsection (d).
SEC. 1697. TRANSFERABILITY OF CONVENTIONAL PROMPT GLOBAL STRIKE WEAPON 
SYSTEM TECHNOLOGIES TO SURFACE-LAUNCHED PLATFORMS.
    (a) Surface-launched Technologies.--The Secretary of the Navy shall 
ensure that the technologies developed for the conventional prompt 
global strike weapon system are transferrable to a surface-launched 
platform.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the programmatic changes 
required to integrate the conventional prompt global strike weapon 
system into current or future surface combatant ships.
SEC. 1698. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR CERTAIN OFFENSIVE 
GROUND-LAUNCHED BALLISTIC OR CRUISE MISSILE SYSTEMS.
    (a) Prohibition.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2020 for the 
Department of Defense may be obligated or expended for the procurement 
or deployment of an offensive ground-launched ballistic or cruise 
missile system with a range between 500 and 5,500 kilometers.
    (b) Report.--Not later than January 31, 2020, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report, 
and provide a briefing, that includes the following:
        (1) An evaluation of the capabilities required to execute 
    contingency plans in the areas of responsibility of the United 
    States European Command and the United States Indo-Pacific Command 
    using offensive ground-launched missile systems of ranges in excess 
    of 500 kilometers.
        (2) An evaluation of what types of systems (including the range 
    and flight profile of such systems), if any, could be used to meet 
    the required capabilities identified under paragraph (1).
        (3) The results of an analysis of alternatives conducted by the 
    Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Director of Cost 
    Assessment and Program Evaluation that considers--
            (A) conventional missile systems, including ground-, sea-, 
        and air-launched missiles, that could be deployed to meet the 
        required capabilities identified under paragraph (1);
            (B) the cost, schedule, and feasibility of tailored 
        acquisition strategies for each such system considered;
            (C) simulations and games that were performed to inform the 
        analysis of alternatives;
            (D) benefits and risks of such different types of systems, 
        including operational considerations in contested environments; 
        and
            (E) any other operational or programmatic considerations 
        determined relevant by the Chairman or the Director.
        (4) Options for basing any such missile system in, or deploying 
    any such missile system to, Europe or the Indo-Pacific region, 
    including any agreements required for such options and potential 
    timelines to implement such options.
        (5) A list of any governments of a foreign country consulted 
    about such possible deployments, and a summary of the reaction of 
    each such government.
        (6) A discussion of whether deploying such missile systems on 
    the territory of a NATO ally would require a consensus decision by 
    NATO.
    (c) Form.--The report under subsection (b) shall be submitted in 
unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.
SEC. 1699. HARD AND DEEPLY BURIED TARGETS.
    (a) Briefing Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than December 1, 2019, the Chairman 
    of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall, in consultation with the 
    Commander of the United States Strategic Command, provide to the 
    congressional defense committees a classified briefing on hard and 
    deeply buried targets.
        (2) Elements.--The briefing required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) An estimate of the total number of high-value hard and 
        deeply buried targets associated with United States military 
        operations plans.
            (B) A description of the contents, functions, and hardening 
        characteristics of the targets described in subparagraph (A), 
        as well as their level of protection by anti-access and area 
        denial capabilities.
            (C) An assessment of the current ability of, and 
        requirement, cost, and implications for deterrence and 
        strategic stability for, the United States to hold such targets 
        at risk using existing conventional and nuclear capabilities.
            (D) An assessment of the potential ability of, and 
        requirement, cost, and implications for deterrence and 
        strategic stability for, the United States to hold such targets 
        at risk using projected conventional and nuclear capabilities 
        as of 2030.
    (b) Plan Required.--Not later than February 15, 2020, the Secretary 
of Defense shall develop a plan detailing the requirement, cost, and 
implications for deterrence and strategic stability for the United 
States to possess by 2025 the capabilities to pose a credible threat 
against targets described in the briefing required by subsection (a).

                 TITLE XVII--REPORTS AND OTHER MATTERS

                     Subtitle A--Studies and Reports

Sec. 1701. Modification of annual reporting requirements on defense 
          manpower.
Sec. 1702. Termination of requirement for submittal to Congress of 
          certain recurring reports.
Sec. 1703. Modification of annual report on civilian casualties in 
          connection with United States military operations.
Sec. 1704. Extension of requirement for briefings on the national 
          biodefense strategy.
Sec. 1705. Authorization of appropriations for title III of the Defense 
          Production Act of 1950.
Sec. 1706. Report on the Department of Defense plan for mass-casualty 
          disaster response operations in the Arctic.
Sec. 1707. Transmittal to Congress of requests for assistance from other 
          departments of the Federal Government that are approved by the 
          Department of Defense.
Sec. 1708. Report and briefing on implementation of national defense 
          strategy.
Sec. 1709. Actions to increase analytic support.
Sec. 1710. Inclusion of certain individuals investigated by Inspectors 
          General in the semiannual report.
Sec. 1711. Annual report on Joint Military Information Support 
          Operations Web Operations Center.
Sec. 1712. Mobility capability requirements study.
Sec. 1713. Assessment of special operations force structure.
Sec. 1714. Army aviation strategic plan and modernization roadmap.
Sec. 1715. Report on ground-based long-range artillery to counter land 
          and maritime threats.
Sec. 1716. Independent review of transportation working-capital fund.
Sec. 1717. Geographic command risk assessment of proposed use of certain 
          aircraft capabilities.
Sec. 1718. Report on backlog of personnel security clearance 
          adjudications.
Sec. 1719. Report regarding outstanding Government Accountability Office 
          recommendations.
Sec. 1720. Report on National Guard and United States Northern Command 
          capacity to meet homeland defense and security incidents.
Sec. 1721. Assessment of standards, processes, procedures, and policy 
          relating to civilian casualties.
Sec. 1722. Report on transfers of equipment to prohibited entities.
Sec. 1723. Annual report on strikes undertaken by the United States 
          against terrorist targets outside areas of active hostilities.
Sec. 1724. Review and assessment of mitigation of military helicopter 
          noise.

                        Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 1731. Technical, conforming, and clerical amendments.
Sec. 1732. Establishment of lead Inspector General for an overseas 
          contingency operation based on Secretary of Defense 
          notification.
Sec. 1733. Clarification of authority of Inspectors General for overseas 
          contingency operations.
Sec. 1734. Employment status of annuitants for Inspectors General for 
          overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 1735. Extension of National Security Commission on Artificial 
          Intelligence.
Sec. 1736. Exemption from calculation of monthly income, for purposes of 
          bankruptcy laws, of certain payments from the Department of 
          Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1737. Extension of postage stamp for breast cancer research.
Sec. 1738. National Commission on Military Aviation Safety.
Sec. 1739. Guarantee of residency for spouses of members of the 
          uniformed services.
Sec. 1740. Electromagnetic pulses and geomagnetic disturbances.
Sec. 1741. Improvements to Manufacturing USA Program.
Sec. 1742. Regional innovation program.
Sec. 1743. Aviation workforce development.
Sec. 1744. Oversight of Department of Defense execute orders.
Sec. 1745. Processes and procedures for notifications regarding special 
          operations forces.
Sec. 1746. Securing American science and technology.
Sec. 1747. Standardized policy guidance for calculating aircraft 
          operation and sustainment costs.
Sec. 1748. Special Federal Aviation Regulation Working Group.
Sec. 1749. Prohibition on names related to the Confederacy.
Sec. 1750. Support for National Maritime Heritage Grants program.
Sec. 1751. Support for world language advancement and readiness.
Sec. 1752. Designation of Department of Defense strategic Arctic ports.
Sec. 1753. Independent studies regarding potential cost savings with 
          respect to the nuclear security enterprise and force structure 
          .
Sec. 1754. Comprehensive Department of Defense policy on collective 
          self-defense.
Sec. 1755. Policy regarding the transition of data and applications to 
          the cloud.
Sec. 1756. Integrated public alert and warning system.
Sec. 1757. Improving quality of information in background investigation 
          request packages.
Sec. 1758. Parole in place for members of the Armed Forces and certain 
          military dependents.
Sec. 1759. Report on reducing the backlog in legally required historical 
          declassification obligations of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1760. Military type certification for light attack experimentation 
          aircraft.

                    Subtitle A--Studies and Reports

SEC. 1701. MODIFICATION OF ANNUAL REPORTING REQUIREMENTS ON DEFENSE 
MANPOWER.
    (a) Conversion of Annual Requirements Report Into Annual Profile 
Report.--Section 115a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking the 
        first two sentences and inserting the following new sentence: 
        ``Not later than April 1 each year, the Secretary of Defense 
        shall submit to Congress a defense manpower profile report.'';
            (B) in paragraph (1), by adding ``and'' at the end;
            (C) in paragraph (2), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        period; and
            (D) by striking paragraph (3);
        (2) in subsection (b)--
            (A) by striking ``(1)''; and
            (B) by striking paragraphs (2) and (3); and
        (3) in subsection (c), by striking ``the following:'' and all 
    that follows and inserting ``the manpower required for support and 
    overhead functions within the armed forces and the Department of 
    Defense.''.
    (b) Conversion of Certain Current Report Elements Into Separate, 
Modified Reports.--Such section is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (d), by striking ``The Secretary shall also 
    include in each such report'' and inserting ``Not later than April 
    1 each year, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report that 
    sets forth''; and
        (2) in subsection (e)(1), by striking ``In each such report, 
    the Secretary shall also include'' and inserting ``Not later than 
    April 1 each year, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report 
    that sets forth'';
        (3) in subsection (f)--
            (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``The Secretary shall also include in each such report'' and 
        inserting ``Not later than June 1 each year, the Secretary 
        shall submit to Congress a report that sets forth''; and
            (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and estimates of such 
        numbers for the current fiscal year and subsequent fiscal 
        years'';
        (4) in subsection (g)--
            (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``In 
        each report submitted under subsection (a), the Secretary shall 
        also include a detailed discussion'' and inserting ``Not later 
        than September 1 each year, the Secretary shall submit to 
        Congress a report that sets forth a detailed discussion, 
        current as of the preceding fiscal year,''; and
            (B) by striking ``the year'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``the fiscal year''; and
        (5) in subsection (h), by striking ``In each such report, the 
    Secretary shall include a separate report'' and inserting ``Not 
    later than April 1 each year, the Secretary shall submit to 
    Congress a report''.
    (c) Conforming and Clerical Amendments.--
        (1) Heading amendment.--The heading of such section is amended 
    to read as follows:
``Sec. 115a. Annual defense manpower profile report and related 
    reports''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 3 of such title is amended by striking the item relating 
    to section 115a and inserting the following new item:

``115a. Annual defense manpower profile report and related reports.''.
SEC. 1702. TERMINATION OF REQUIREMENT FOR SUBMITTAL TO CONGRESS OF 
CERTAIN RECURRING REPORTS.
    (a) Termination.--Effective on December 30, 2021, each report 
described in subsection (b) that is still required to be submitted to 
Congress as of such effective date shall no longer be required to be 
submitted to Congress.
    (b) Covered Reports.--A report described in this subsection is any 
of the following:
        (1) The report required by section 1696(b) of the John S. 
    McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 
    (Public Law 115-232).
        (2) The report required by section 1071(b)(1) of the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91).
        (3) The report required by section 1788a(d) of title 10, United 
    States Code, as added by section 555 of such Act.
        (4) The report required under section 709(g) of the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 
    10 U.S.C. 1071 note).
        (5) The report required by section 1292(a)(2) of such Act (22 
    U.S.C. 2751 note).
        (6) The quarterly report required by section 1236(c) of such 
    Act.
        (7) The annual certification required by section 1666 of such 
    Act (10 U.S.C. 2431 note).
        (8) The updates required under paragraph (3) of subsection (a) 
    of section 1694 of such Act to the report required under paragraph 
    (1) of such subsection.
        (9) The notifications required by section 1695 of such Act.
        (10) The report required under section 522(g) of the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92).
    (c) Conforming Repeal.--
        (1) In general.--Section 1788a of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by striking subsection (d).
        (2) Effective date.--The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall 
    take effect on December 30, 2021.
    (d) Requirement for Preparation of Certain Reports to Congress by 
Civilian Employees of the Federal Government and Members of the Armed 
Forces.--
        (1) Requirement.--Except as expressly otherwise provided in the 
    provision of law requiring such report, any report submitted to 
    Congress pursuant to a provision of a national defense 
    authorization Act that is enacted on or after the date that is 
    three years after the date of the enactment of this Act shall be 
    written by civilian employees of the Federal Government, members of 
    the Armed Forces, or both, and not by contractor employees of the 
    Federal Government.
        (2) Briefing.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall brief the 
    Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
    Representatives on the actions to be taken to ensure compliance 
    with the requirement in paragraph (1), including on any impediments 
    to compliance with the requirement.
SEC. 1703. MODIFICATION OF ANNUAL REPORT ON CIVILIAN CASUALTIES IN 
CONNECTION WITH UNITED STATES MILITARY OPERATIONS.
    (a) In General.--Section 1057 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91), as amended by section 
1062 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)--
            (A) by redesignating paragraphs (5) and (6) as paragraphs 
        (8) and (9), respectively; and
            (B) by striking paragraphs (3) and (4) and inserting the 
        following new paragraphs:
        ``(3) A description of the process by which the Department of 
    Defense investigates allegations of civilian casualties resulting 
    from United States military operations, including how the 
    Department incorporates information from interviews with witnesses, 
    civilian survivors of United States operations, and public reports 
    or other nongovernmental sources.
        ``(4) A description of--
            ``(A) steps taken by the Department to mitigate harm to 
        civilians in conducting such operations; and
            ``(B) in the case of harm caused by such an operation to a 
        civilian, any ex gratia payment or other assistance provided to 
        the civilian or the family of the civilian.
        ``(5) A description of any allegations of civilian casualties 
    made by public or non-governmental sources formally investigated by 
    the Department of Defense.
        ``(6) A description of the general reasons for any 
    discrepancies between the assessments of the United States and 
    reporting from nongovernmental organizations regarding non-
    combatant deaths resulting from strikes and operations undertaken 
    by the United States.
        ``(7) The definitions of `combatant' and `non-combatant' used 
    in the preparation of the report, which shall be consistent with 
    the laws of armed conflict.''; and
        (2) in subsection (e), by striking ``five years'' and inserting 
    ``seven years''.
    (b) Classification.--The Law Revision Counsel is directed to place 
such section 1057 in a note following section 113 of title 10, United 
States Code.
SEC. 1704. EXTENSION OF REQUIREMENT FOR BRIEFINGS ON THE NATIONAL 
BIODEFENSE STRATEGY.
    Section 1086(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2423; 6 U.S.C. 104(d)) 
is amended by striking ``March 1, 2019'' and inserting ``March 1, 
2025''.
SEC. 1705. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR TITLE III OF THE DEFENSE 
PRODUCTION ACT OF 1950.
    (a) In General.--Section 711 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 
(50 U.S.C. 4561) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``In 
addition to the appropriations authorized by the previous sentence, 
there is authorized to be appropriated $117,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2020 through 2024 to carry out title III.''.
    (b) Annual Briefing Required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for five 
years, the Secretary of Defense, or the designee of the Secretary, 
shall brief the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs of the Senate on activities undertaken in the preceding year 
with respect to title III of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 
U.S.C. 4531 et seq.).
SEC. 1706. REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PLAN FOR MASS-CASUALTY 
DISASTER RESPONSE OPERATIONS IN THE ARCTIC.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the Department of Defense may be called upon to support the 
    Coast Guard and other agencies of the Department of Homeland 
    Security in responding to any mass-casualty disaster response 
    operations in the Arctic;
        (2) coordination between the Department of Defense and the 
    Coast Guard might be necessary for responding to a mass-casualty 
    event in the Arctic; and
        (3) prior planning for Arctic mass-casualty disaster response 
    operations will bolster the response of the Federal Government to a 
    mass-casualty disaster in the Arctic environment.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in coordination 
with the Secretary of Homeland Security, submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a report on the plan of the Department of 
Defense for assisting mass-casualty disaster response operations in the 
Arctic.
    (c) Elements.--The report required by subsection (b) shall include 
the following:
        (1) A description of the assets that could be made available to 
    support other agencies and departments of the Federal Government 
    for mass-casualty disaster response operations in the Arctic.
        (2) A description and assessment of the command, control, and 
    coordination relationships that would be useful to integrate rescue 
    forces for such operations from multiple agencies and departments 
    of the Federal Government.
        (3) A description and assessment of the communications assets 
    that could be made available in support of other agencies and 
    departments of the Federal Government for communication and 
    coordination in such operations.
        (4) A description of any cooperative arrangements with Canada 
    and other regional partners in providing rescue assets and 
    infrastructure in connection with such operations.
        (5) A description of available medical infrastructure and 
    assets that could be made available in support of other agencies 
    and departments of the Federal Government for aeromedical 
    evacuation in connection with such operations.
        (6) A description of available shelter locations that could be 
    made available in support of other agencies and departments of the 
    Federal Government for use in connection with such operations, 
    including the number of people that can be sheltered per location.
        (7) An assessment of logistical challenges that evacuations 
    from the Arctic in connection with such operations entail, 
    including potential rotary and fixed-wing aircraft trans-load 
    locations and onward movement requirements.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Homeland 
    Security and Governmental Affairs, and the Committee on 
    Appropriations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Homeland 
    Security, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
    Representatives.
SEC. 1707. TRANSMITTAL TO CONGRESS OF REQUESTS FOR ASSISTANCE FROM 
OTHER DEPARTMENTS OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT THAT ARE APPROVED BY THE 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Requests Following Approval.--Not later than seven calendar 
days after the Department of Defense approves a Request for Assistance 
from the Department of Homeland Security or the Department of Health 
and Human Services, the Secretary of Defense shall electronically 
transmit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives a copy of such Request for Assistance.
    (b) Official Responses to Approved Requests.--At the same time the 
Secretary of Defense submits to the Secretary of Homeland Security or 
the Secretary of Health and Human Services an official response of the 
Department of Defense approving a Request for Assistance from the 
Department of Homeland Security or the Department of Health and Human 
Services, as applicable, the Secretary of Defense shall electronically 
transmit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives a copy of such official response.
SEC. 1708. REPORT AND BRIEFING ON IMPLEMENTATION OF NATIONAL DEFENSE 
STRATEGY.
    (a) Report and Briefing.--In addition to the assessment required 
under section 113(g)(1)(F) of title 10, United States Code, by not 
later than April 30, 2020, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report, and provide an accompanying 
briefing, on the implementation of the national defense strategy 
required under section 113(g) of title 10, United States Code. Such 
report and briefing shall include each of the following:
        (1) An explanation of the joint operational concepts to deter 
    and, if necessary, to defeat strategic competitors, including--
            (A) an evaluation of the risks associated with the 
        employment of such joint operational concepts;
            (B) the ways of adapting innovative joint operational 
        concepts to strategically significant scenarios;
            (C) the ways that such joint operational concepts address 
        operational challenges to achieve advantages against strategic 
        competitors in the nuclear, space, and cyber domains; and
            (D) the employment of the force in peacetime to dissuade 
        strategic competitors from conducting malign activities below 
        the threshold of open warfare, including an evaluation of the 
        use of Dynamic Force Employment and the Global Operating Model.
        (2) The force posture changes and the United States defense 
    investments required to implement the national defense strategy.
        (3) Adjustments to research and development projects and 
    programs of record, including any additions, deletions, or 
    modifications intended to align force management, including Joint 
    Force development and design, required to implement the national 
    defense strategy.
        (4) An assessment of the personnel and organizational changes 
    required to implement the national defense strategy.
        (5) The resources and defense investments necessary to support 
    the operational concepts and their implementation.
    (b) Independent Studies.--
        (1) Studies required.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide for 
        the performance of two independent studies on the development 
        of joint operational concepts within the Department of Defense 
        in accordance with this subsection.
            (B) Submittal to congress.--Not later than October 1, 2020, 
        the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees the results of each study required under 
        subparagraph (A).
            (C) Form.--Each study required under subparagraph (A) shall 
        be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.
        (2) Entities to perform studies.--The Secretary shall provide 
    for the studies under paragraph (1) to be performed as follows:
            (A) One study shall be performed by a federally funded 
        research and development center.
            (B) One study shall be performed by an independent, non-
        governmental institute, which is described in section 501(c)(3) 
        of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and which is exempt from 
        taxation under section 501(a) of such Code, and which has 
        recognized credentials and expertise in national security and 
        military affairs.
        (3) Performance of studies.--
            (A) Independent performance.--The Secretary shall require 
        the studies required under this subsection to be conducted 
        independently of one another.
            (B) Matters to be considered.--In performing a study under 
        this subsection, the organization performing the study shall 
        consider the following matters:
                (i) An assessment of the Department of Defense Capstone 
            Concept of Joint Operations process to define, develop, and 
            improve joint operational concepts.
                (ii) An evaluation of how the Department is validating 
            new joint operational concepts through experimentation and 
            military exercises.
                (iii) The effectiveness of joint operational concepts 
            to accomplish the objective of deterring and defeating 
            strategic competitors, including an evaluation of the risks 
            associated with each joint operational concept.
                (iv) The ability of joint operational concepts to 
            promote or to effectuate strategic objectives, defense 
            policies, and budgetary priorities.
                (v) Recommendations to alter or improve joint 
            operational concepts.
                (vi) Such other matters as the Secretary of Defense 
            determines to be appropriate.
SEC. 1709. ACTIONS TO INCREASE ANALYTIC SUPPORT.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall direct the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Policy, the Director of the Joint Staff, and 
the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, in consultation 
with the Secretary of each of the military services, to jointly develop 
and implement a plan to strengthen the analytic capabilities, 
expertise, and processes necessary to implement the national defense 
strategy, as required under section 113(g) of title 10, United States 
Code.
    (b) Elements.--The plan under subsection (a) shall include--
        (1) an assessment of the decision support capability of the 
    Department of Defense to support decision-making, specifically the 
    analytic expertise available to inform senior leader decisions that 
    link national defense strategy objectives with approaches to 
    competing effectively across the full spectrum of engagement 
    against strategic competitors;
        (2) an analytic approach to force structure development, 
    including an assessment of the major elements, products, and 
    milestones of the force planning process of the Department;
        (3) the conclusions and recommendations of the Defense Planning 
    and Analysis Community initiative;
        (4) the progress of the Department in implementing the 
    recommendations of the Comptroller General of the United States set 
    forth in Government Accountability Office Report (GAO-19-40C);
        (5) the progress of the Under Secretary, the Chairman of the 
    Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Director of Cost Assessment and 
    Program Evaluation in implementing paragraph (5) of section 134(b) 
    of title 10, United States Code, as added by section 902(b) of the 
    John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
    2019 (Public Law 115-232); and
        (6) such other matters as the Secretary of Defense determines 
    to be appropriate.
    (c) Briefing Required.--Not later than March 1, 2020, the Secretary 
of Defense shall provide to the congressional defense committees a 
briefing on the plan under subsection (a).
SEC. 1710. INCLUSION OF CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS INVESTIGATED BY INSPECTORS 
GENERAL IN THE SEMIANNUAL REPORT.
    Section 5(a)(19) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (Public Law 
95-452; 5 U.S.C. App.) is amended by inserting ``the name of the senior 
government official (as defined by the department or agency) if already 
made public by the Office, and'' after ``including''.
SEC. 1711. ANNUAL REPORT ON JOINT MILITARY INFORMATION SUPPORT 
OPERATIONS WEB OPERATIONS CENTER.
    (a) In General.--Not later than March 1 of 2020, and each 
subsequent year until the termination date specified in subsection (c), 
the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low-
Intensity Conflict and the Commander of United States Special 
Operations Command shall jointly submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on the activities of the Joint Military Information 
Support Operations Web Operations Center (hereinafter referred to as 
the ``JMWC'') during the most recently concluded fiscal year.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
each of the following, for the fiscal year covered by the report:
        (1) Definitions of initial operating capability and full 
    operational capability as such terms relate to the JMWC.
        (2) A detailed description of all activities conducted or 
    planned to be conducted toward achieving initial operating 
    capability and full operational capability of the JMWC.
        (3) A list of all associated funding requested for each program 
    element for achieving initial operating capability and full 
    operational capability.
        (4) A detailed description of validated doctrine, organization, 
    training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel, 
    facilities, and policy requirements relating to establishment and 
    operation of the JMWC.
        (5) A description of current JMWC capabilities, including 
    information technology infrastructure and contractual arrangements.
        (6) A list of all physical locations hosting JMWC capabilities.
        (7) The number of military, contractor, and civilian personnel 
    associated with the JMWC and any affiliated agency, service, or 
    other Department of Defense entity.
        (8) A description of the JMWC personnel organizational 
    structure.
        (9) An identification of inherently governmental functions 
    relating to administration of the JMWC and execution of Military 
    Information Support Operations (hereinafter referred to as 
    ``MISO)'' programs enabled by the JMWC.
        (10) A detailed description of frameworks, metrics, and 
    capabilities to measure the effectiveness of MISO programs enabled 
    by the JMWC.
        (11) A list of all associated funding requested by program 
    element from each of the geographic combatant commanders for MISO 
    programs enabled by the JMWC and a description of such MISO 
    activities.
        (12) An assessment of the effectiveness of MISO programs 
    enabled by the JMWC.
        (13) A description of efforts and activities conducted to share 
    best practices and leverage lessons learned across the Department 
    of Defense relating to MISO programs enabled by the JMWC, as well 
    as a description of such best practices and lessons learned.
        (14) An identification of liaisons and detailees to the JMWC 
    from agencies and elements of the Department of Defense and other 
    elements of the Federal Government.
        (15) Activities and efforts conducted to synchronize and 
    deconflict MISO programs within the Department of Defense and with 
    interagency and international partners related to strategic 
    communications, as appropriate.
        (16) Such other information as the Assistant Secretary and the 
    Commander determine appropriate.
    (c) Termination.--The requirement to submit a report under this 
section shall terminate on January 1, 2025.
SEC. 1712. MOBILITY CAPABILITY REQUIREMENTS STUDY.
    (a) In General.--The Commander of the United States Transportation 
Command, in coordination with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff, the Secretaries of the military departments, and the commanders 
of the combatant commands, shall conduct a study of the end-to-end, 
full-spectrum mobility requirements to fulfill the national defense 
strategy required by section 113(g) of title 10, United States Code, 
for 2018. Such study shall be completed not later than January 1, 2021.
    (b) Elements of Study.--The study required under subsection (a) 
shall include each of the following:
        (1) An assessment of the ability of the programmed airlift 
    aircraft, tanker aircraft, sealift ships, and key mobility enablers 
    to meet the integrated mobility requirements in expected strategic 
    environments, as defined by the guidance in such national defense 
    strategy.
        (2) An identification, quantification, and description of the 
    associated risk-to-mission (as defined by Chairman of the Joint 
    Chiefs of Staff Manual 3105.01, Joint Risk Analysis) required to 
    fulfill such strategy, including--
            (A) as assessment of risk-to-mission associated with 
        achieving strategic and operational objectives using the 
        programmed airlift aircraft, tanker aircraft, sealift ships, 
        and key mobility enablers; and
            (B) a description of the combinations of airlift aircraft, 
        tanker aircraft, sealift ships, and key mobility enabler 
        requirements and capabilities that provide low, moderate, 
        significant, and high levels of risk-to-mission to fulfill such 
        strategy.
        (3) An identification of any mobility capability gaps, 
    shortfalls, overlaps, or excesses, including--
            (A) an assessment of associated risks with respect to the 
        ability to conduct operations; and
            (B) recommended mitigation strategies where possible.
        (4) The articulation of all key assumptions and decisions made 
    and excursions examined in conducting the study with respect to--
            (A) risk;
            (B) programmed forces and infrastructure;
            (C) the availability of commercial airlift and commercial 
        United States sealift capabilities and resources, when 
        applicable;
            (D) aircraft usage rates, aircraft mission availability 
        rates, aircraft mission capability rates, aircrew ratios, 
        aircrew production, and aircrew readiness rates;
            (E) readiness, crewing, and activation rates for sealift 
        ships;
            (F) prepositioning, forward stationing, seabasing, 
        engineering, and infrastructure;
            (G) demand signals used to represent missions described in 
        the national defense strategy for 2018, in competition and 
        wartime;
            (H) concurrency and global integration of demand signals;
            (I) integrated global presence and basing strategy;
            (J) host nation or third-country support;
            (K) adversary actions to degrade and disrupt United States 
        mobility operations;
            (L) adversary actions that threaten freedom of navigation 
        on international waterways, including attacks on foreign ships 
        and crews;
            (M) aircraft being used for training or undergoing depot 
        maintenance or modernization or ships undergoing depot 
        maintenance;
            (N) mobility enabling forces availability, readiness, and 
        use;
            (O) logistics concept of operations, including any support 
        concepts, methods, combat support forces, and combat service 
        support forces, that are required to enable the projection and 
        enduring support to forces both deployed and in combat for each 
        analytic scenario;
            (P) anticipated attrition rates for the assessed force 
        structure; and
            (Q) such other matters as the Commander determines 
        appropriate.
        (5) Such other elements as the Commander determines 
    appropriate.
    (c) Reports and Briefings.--
        (1) Interim report and briefing.--Not later than June 1, 2020, 
    the Commander of the United States Transportation Command, in 
    coordination with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the 
    Secretaries of the military departments, and the commanders of the 
    combatant commands, shall--
            (A) submit to the congressional defense committees an 
        interim report on the study; and
            (B) provide to such committees a briefing on the report.
        (2) Final report and briefing.--Not later than January 1, 2021, 
    the Commander of the United States Transportation Command, in 
    coordination with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the 
    Secretaries of the military departments, and the commanders of the 
    combatant commands, shall--
            (A) submit to the congressional defense committees a final 
        report on the study; and
            (B) provide to such committees a briefing on the report.
        (3) Form of reports.--The reports required by paragraphs (1) 
    and (2) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
    classified annex.
    (d) Definition of Sealift Ship.--In this section, the term 
``sealift ship'' includes surge sealift vessels, tanker vessels, and 
non-governmental vessels incorporated as part of the maritime logistics 
enterprise.
SEC. 1713. ASSESSMENT OF SPECIAL OPERATIONS FORCE STRUCTURE.
    (a) Assessment.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter 
into an agreement with a federally funded research and development 
center for the conduct of an independent assessment of the force 
structure and roles and responsibilities of special operations forces.
    (b) Matters to Be Considered.--In performing the assessment under 
this section, the federally funded research and development center 
shall consider the following matters:
        (1) The most recent national defense strategy under section 
    113(g) of title 10, United States Code.
        (2) Special operations activities, as described in section 
    167(k) of title 10, United States Code.
        (3) Potential future national security threats to the United 
    States.
        (4) Ongoing counterterrorism and contingency operations of the 
    United States.
        (5) The demand for special operations forces by geographic 
    combatant commanders for security cooperation, exercises, and other 
    missions that could be executed by conventional forces.
        (6) Other government and non-government analyses that would 
    contribute to the assessment through variations in study 
    assumptions or potential scenarios.
        (7) The role of emerging technology on special operations 
    forces.
        (8) Opportunities for reduced operation and sustainment costs 
    of special operations.
        (9) Current and projected capabilities of other United States 
    Armed Forces that could affect force structure capability and 
    capacity requirements of special operations forces.
        (10) The process by which United States Special Operations 
    Command determines force size and structure.
        (11) The size, composition, and organizational structure of 
    United States Special Operations Command headquarters and 
    subordinate headquarters elements.
        (12) The readiness of special operations forces for assigned 
    missions and future conflicts.
        (13) The adequacy of special operations force structure for 
    meeting the goals of the National Military Strategy under section 
    153(b) of title 10, United States Code.
        (14) Any other matters deemed relevant.
    (c) Assessment Results.--The results of the assessment under this 
section shall include each of the following:
        (1) Considerations and recommendations for improving the 
    readiness of special operations forces.
        (2) Alternative headquarters and force structure options to 
    reduce administrative costs and enhance operational effectiveness.
        (3) Legislative recommendations with respect to section 167 of 
    title 10, United States Code, and other relevant provisions of law.
    (d) Submission to Congress.--Not later than July 1, 2020, the 
Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees an 
unaltered copy of the assessment required under subsection (a) together 
with the views of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special 
Operations and Low-Intensity Conflict and the Commander of United 
States Special Operations Command on the assessment and the 
recommendations included in the assessment.
SEC. 1714. ARMY AVIATION STRATEGIC PLAN AND MODERNIZATION ROADMAP.
    (a) Strategic Plan and Modernization Roadmap.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Army shall develop a 
    comprehensive strategic plan for Army aviation, which shall--
            (A) ensure the alignment between requirements, both current 
        and future, and Army budget submissions to meet such 
        requirements; and
            (B) inform the preparation of future defense program and 
        budget requests by the Secretary, and the consideration of such 
        requests by Congress.
        (2) Elements.--The plan required by paragraph (1) shall include 
    the following:
            (A) An assessment of all missions for Army aviation, both 
        current missions and those missions necessary to support the 
        national defense strategy and the U.S. Army in Multi-Domain 
        Operations 2028 concept.
            (B) An analysis of platforms, capabilities, and capacities 
        necessary to fulfill such current and future Army aviation 
        missions.
            (C) The anticipated life cycle budget associated with each 
        platform, capability, and capacity requirement for both current 
        and future requirements.
            (D) An analysis showing operational, budget, and schedule 
        trade-offs between sustainment of currently fielded 
        capabilities, modernization of currently fielded capabilities, 
        and development and production of new capabilities.
    (b) Report to Congress.--Not later than March 30, 2020, the 
Secretary of the Army shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report containing--
        (1) the comprehensive strategic plan required by subsection 
    (a); and
        (2) a sustainment and modernization plan for carrying out such 
    strategic plan through fiscal year 2028.
SEC. 1715. REPORT ON GROUND-BASED LONG-RANGE ARTILLERY TO COUNTER LAND 
AND MARITIME THREATS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than March 1, 2020, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
and House of Representatives a report on the efforts by the Army and 
Marine Corps to develop and deploy ground-based long-range rocket and 
cannon artillery to counter land and maritime threats.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
each of the following:
        (1) An assessment of ongoing and future Army and Marine Corps 
    efforts to develop and deploy ground-based long-range rocket and 
    cannon artillery to counter land and maritime fires in the areas of 
    operations of United States Indo-Pacific Command and United States 
    European Command.
        (2) An assessment of and recommendations for how the Department 
    of Defense can improve the development and deployment of such 
    artillery.
        (3) An analysis, assessment, and determination of how such 
    artillery employed in support of the United States and allied 
    forces will be stationed, deployed, operationally positioned, and 
    controlled to operate effectively against potential adversaries 
    throughout the depth of their tactical, operational, and strategic 
    formations, including any recommendations of the Secretary 
    regarding how such capabilities and support could be enhanced.
    (c) Form of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.
SEC. 1716. INDEPENDENT REVIEW OF TRANSPORTATION WORKING-CAPITAL FUND.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
the Secretary of each of the military departments, shall enter into a 
contract with a federally funded research and development center for 
the conduct of an independent review of the transportation working-
capital fund (hereinafter referred to as the ``TWCF'') of the United 
States Transportation Command.
    (b) Matters for Inclusion.--The review conducted under subsection 
(a) shall include each of the following:
        (1) The viability of the TWCF as it is structured as of the 
    date of the enactment of this Act.
        (2) An assessment of any instances in which excess TWCF funds 
    were used for procurement or modernization efforts that would not 
    otherwise have been funded using amounts made available for 
    operation and maintenance.
        (3) Recommendations for how the TWCF could be restructured in 
    order to make the fund more effective and efficient.
        (4) Potential alternative funding mechanisms for certain 
    components of the TWCF, including the channel system.
        (5) Any other matters the Secretaries jointly determine 
    appropriate.
    (c) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense 
and the Secretary of each of the military departments shall jointly 
submit the to the congressional defense committees a copy of the review 
conducted under subsection (a).
SEC. 1717. GEOGRAPHIC COMMAND RISK ASSESSMENT OF PROPOSED USE OF 
CERTAIN AIRCRAFT CAPABILITIES.
    (a) In General.--Not later than March 31, 2020, each commander of a 
geographic combatant command shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report containing an assessment of the level of 
operational risk to that command posed by the plans of the Department 
of the Navy and Department of the Air Force to provide a mix of fifth 
generation and advanced fourth generation tactical aircraft 
capabilities to meet near-, mid-, and far-term contingency and steady-
state operational requirements against adversaries in support of the 
objectives of the 2018 national defense strategy.
    (b) Assessment of Risk.--In assessing levels of operational risk 
under subsection (a), a commander shall use the military risk matrix of 
the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, as described in CJCS 
Instruction 3401.01E.
    (c) Geographic Combatant Command.--In this section, the term 
``geographic combatant command'' means each of the following:
        (1) United States European Command.
        (2) United States Indo-Pacific Command.
        (3) United States Africa Command.
        (4) United States Southern Command.
        (5) United States Northern Command.
        (6) United States Central Command.
SEC. 1718. REPORT ON BACKLOG OF PERSONNEL SECURITY CLEARANCE 
ADJUDICATIONS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and quarterly thereafter for three years, the 
Security Executive Agent, in coordination with members of the 
Performance Accountability Council established pursuant to Executive 
Order 13467, shall submit to Congress a report on the backlog of 
personnel security clearance adjudications conducted by all Government 
agencies that adjudicate decisions for security clearances. Such report 
shall include--
        (1) the size of the backlog of personnel security clearance 
    adjudications, by agency, for the fiscal quarter preceding the 
    quarter during which the report is submitted;
        (2) the average length of time, for each security clearance 
    sensitivity level, to carry out an initial adjudication and an 
    adjudication following a periodic reinvestigation, by agency;
        (3) the number of cases referred to the Consolidated 
    Adjudication Facility of the Department of Defense;
        (4) the number of initial investigations adjudicated by the 
    Consolidated Adjudication Facility;
        (5) the number of periodic reinvestigations adjudicated by the 
    Consolidated Adjudication Facility;
        (6) the number of cases adjudicated by the Consolidated 
    Adjudication Facility stemming from participation in a continuous 
    evaluation program;
        (7) the number of personnel enrolled in a continuous evaluation 
    program as opposed to subject to a periodic reinvestigation;
        (8) the number of adjudicators by agency; and
        (9) a backlog mitigation plan, which shall include--
            (A) the identification of the cause of, and recommendations 
        to remedy, the adjudication backlog at Federal agencies; and
            (B) the steps the Security Executive Agent, established 
        pursuant to Executive Order 13467, shall take to reduce the 
        adjudication backlog.
    (b) Public Availability.--Each report required under subsection (a) 
shall be made publicly available.
SEC. 1719. REPORT REGARDING OUTSTANDING GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY 
OFFICE RECOMMENDATIONS.
    Not later than September 30, 2020, the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes--
        (1) a list of the priority recommendations identified by the 
    Comptroller General of the United States regarding matters of the 
    Department of Defense that the Secretary has not implemented due to 
    funding limitations.
        (2) the estimated cost associated with implementing such 
    recommendations.
SEC. 1720. REPORT ON NATIONAL GUARD AND UNITED STATES NORTHERN COMMAND 
CAPACITY TO MEET HOMELAND DEFENSE AND SECURITY INCIDENTS.
    Not later than September 30, 2020, the Chief of the National Guard 
Bureau shall, in consultation with the Commander of United States 
Northern Command, submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report setting forth the following:
        (1) A clarification of the roles and missions, structure, 
    capabilities, and training of the National Guard and the United 
    States Northern Command, and an identification of emerging gaps and 
    shortfalls in light of current homeland security threats to our 
    country.
        (2) A list of the resources that each State and Territory 
    National Guard has at its disposal that are available to respond to 
    a homeland defense or security incident, with particular focus on a 
    multi-State electromagnetic pulse event.
        (3) The readiness and resourcing status of forces listed 
    pursuant to paragraph (2).
        (4) The current strengths and areas of improvement in working 
    with State and Federal interagency partners.
        (5) The current assessments that address National Guard 
    readiness and resourcing of regular United States Northern Command 
    forces postured to respond to homeland defense and security 
    incidents.
        (6) A roadmap to 2040 that addresses readiness across the 
    spectrum of long-range emerging threats facing the United States.
SEC. 1721. ASSESSMENT OF STANDARDS, PROCESSES, PROCEDURES, AND POLICY 
RELATING TO CIVILIAN CASUALTIES.
    (a) Assessment.--The Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter into 
an agreement with a federally funded research and development center 
for the conduct of an independent assessment of Department of Defense 
standards, processes, procedures, and policy relating to civilian 
casualties resulting from United States military operations.
    (b) Matters To Be Considered.--In conducting the assessment under 
this section, the federally funded research and development center 
shall consider the following matters:
        (1) Department of Defense policy relating to civilian 
    casualties resulting from United States military operations.
        (2) Standards, processes, and procedures for internal 
    assessments and investigations of civilian casualties resulting 
    from United States military operations.
        (3) Standards, processes, and procedures for identifying, 
    assessing, investigating, and responding to reports of civilian 
    casualties resulting from United States military operations from 
    the public and non-governmental entities and sources.
        (4) Combatant command resourcing and organizational constructs 
    for assessing and investigating civilian casualties resulting from 
    United States military operations.
        (5) Mechanisms for public and non-governmental entities to 
    report civilian casualties that may have resulted from United 
    States military operations to the Department of Defense.
        (6) Standards and processes for accurately recording kinetic 
    strikes, including raids, strikes, and other missions, and civilian 
    casualties resulting from United States military operations.
        (7) An analysis of general reasons for any disparity between 
    third party public estimates and official United States Government 
    estimates of civilian casualties resulting from United States or 
    joint military operations.
        (8) The standardization of dissemination and 
    institutionalization across the Department of Defense and the 
    combatant commands of lessons learned from United States military 
    operations as a means of reducing the likelihood of civilian 
    casualties from United States military operations.
        (9) Any other matters the Secretary of Defense determines 
    appropriate.
    (c) Recommendations for Improvements.--The results of the 
assessment under this section shall include recommendations for 
improvements to standards, processes, procedures, policy, and 
organizational constructs relating to civilian casualties resulting 
from United States military operations.
    (d) Submission of Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than July 1, 2020, the Secretary of 
    Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
    report setting forth an unaltered copy of the assessment under this 
    section, together with the views of the Secretary on the assessment 
    and on the recommendations included pursuant to subsection (c).
        (2) Form of report.--The report under paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.
        (3) Public availability.--The Secretary shall make the 
    unclassified form of the report under paragraph (1) available to 
    the public.
SEC. 1722. REPORT ON TRANSFERS OF EQUIPMENT TO PROHIBITED ENTITIES.
    (a) Annual Report.--Not later than March 1, 2021, and each 
subsequent year through 2025, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination 
with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate committees 
of Congress a report on the transfer of defense articles during the 
year preceding the year during which the report is submitted to any of 
the following:
        (1) Any security force unit that has committed a gross 
    violation of human rights in violation of section 362 of title 10, 
    United States Code, or section 620M of the Foreign Assistance Act 
    of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2378d).
        (2) Any group or organization prohibited by law from receiving 
    assistance from the United States.
    (b) Matters to Be Included.--The report required by subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
        (1) A description of any confirmed instance in which the 
    government of a foreign state that has received defense articles 
    pursuant to a Department of Defense assistance authority 
    subsequently transferred any such articles to a unit of that 
    foreign state that is prohibited from receiving assistance from the 
    United States by reason of a determination by the Secretary of 
    Defense or the Secretary of State that there is credible evidence 
    that such unit has committed a gross violation of human rights.
        (2) A description of any instance, confirmed or under 
    investigation, in which the government of a foreign state that has 
    received defense articles pursuant to a Department of Defense 
    assistance authority subsequently transferred any such articles to 
    a group or organization that is prohibited by law from receiving 
    assistance from the United States.
    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1723. ANNUAL REPORT ON STRIKES UNDERTAKEN BY THE UNITED STATES 
AGAINST TERRORIST TARGETS OUTSIDE AREAS OF ACTIVE HOSTILITIES.
    (a) Annual Report.--Not later than May 1 2020, and annually 
thereafter until 2022, the Director of National Intelligence and the 
Secretary of Defense shall jointly submit to Congress a report on the 
number of strikes undertaken by the United States against terrorist 
targets outside areas of active hostilities during the preceding 
calendar year, as well as assessments of combatant and non-combatant 
deaths resulting from those strikes.
    (b) Contents of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) 
shall include--
        (1) information obtained from relevant agencies regarding the 
    general sources of information and methodology used to conduct the 
    assessments of combatant and non-combatant deaths;
        (2) to the extent feasible and appropriate, the general reasons 
    for discrepancies between post-strike assessments from the United 
    States and credible reporting from nongovernmental organizations 
    regarding non-combatant deaths resulting from strikes undertaken by 
    the United States against terrorist targets outside areas of active 
    hostilities.
    (c) Review of Post-strike Reporting.--In preparing a report under 
this section, the Director and the Secretary shall, to the maximum 
extent practicable, review relevant and credible post-strike all-source 
reporting, including such information from nongovernmental sources, for 
the purpose of ensuring that this reporting is available to and 
considered by relevant agencies in their assessment of deaths.
    (d) Form of Report.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 1724. REVIEW AND ASSESSMENT OF MITIGATION OF MILITARY HELICOPTER 
NOISE.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, shall conduct a review and 
assessment of military helicopter noise in the National Capital Region. 
Such review and assessment shall include--
        (1) a study on the causes and effects of military helicopter 
    noise on communities and individuals in the National Capital 
    Region;
        (2) recommendations to mitigate the effects of military 
    helicopter noise on individuals, structures, and property values in 
    the National Capital Region; and
        (3) the extent to which the Department has processes in place 
    for collecting, analyzing, and managing military helicopter noise 
    complaints from the general public across the National Capital 
    Region.
    (b) Focus.--In conducting the review under subsection (a), the 
Secretary and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall focus on 
all military helicopter flights in the National Capital Region, 
including helicopters from the Army, Air Force, and Marine Corps.
    (c) Report.--Not later than six months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report 
on the results of the review conducted under subsection (a). Such 
report shall include a description of the policies and procedures 
currently being used by the Army, Air Force, and Marine Corps in the 
National Capital Region to mitigate the impact of helicopter noise as 
well as the means to track compliance with these internal practices to 
ensure compliance.
    (d) Definition of National Capital Region.--In this section, the 
term ``National Capital Region'' has the meaning given the term in 
section 2574 of title 10, United States Code.

                       Subtitle B--Other Matters

SEC. 1731. TECHNICAL, CONFORMING, AND CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.
    (a) Title 10, United States Code.--Title 10, United States Code, is 
amended as follows:
        (1) The table of chapters at the beginning of subtitle A, and 
    at the beginning of part I of such subtitle, are each amended by 
    striking the item relating to chapter 9A and inserting the 
    following:

``9A. Audit......................................................240a''.

        (2) The table of chapters at the beginning of subtitle A, and 
    at the beginning of part I of such subtitle, are each amended by 
    striking the item relating to chapter 112 and inserting the 
    following:

``112. Cyber Scholarship Program.................................2200''.

        (3) Section 113(j)(1) is amended by inserting ``the'' before 
    ``congressional defense committees''.
        (4) Section 119a is amended in each of the subsection headings 
    for subsections (a) and (b) by striking ``AACMS'' and inserting 
    ``ACCMS''.
        (5) Section 127(c)(1) is amended by inserting ``the'' before 
    ``congressional defense committees''.
        (6) Section 130i is amended--
            (A) in subsection (i)(1), by inserting ``(C)'' after 
        ``(j)(3)''; and
            (B) in subsection (j)(6), by striking ``40101'' and 
        inserting ``44802''.
        (7) Section 131(b)(8) is amended by redesignating subparagraph 
    (I) as subparagraph (F).
        (8) Section 132 is amended by redesignating subsection (e) as 
    subsection (d).
        (9) The item relating to section 169 in the table of sections 
    at the beginning of chapter 6 is amended by inserting a period 
    after ``Command''.
        (10) The item relating to section 183a in the table of sections 
    at the beginning of chapter 7 is amended to read as follows:

``183a. Military Aviation and Installation Assurance Clearinghouse for 
          review of mission obstructions.''.

        (11) Section 187(a)(2)(C) is amended by striking ``Assistant 
    Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' 
    and inserting ``Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, 
    Logistics, and Technology''.
        (12) Section 222a(d)(3)(A) is amended by inserting ``had'' 
    before ``been''.
        (13) Section 222b(a) is amended by striking ``United States 
    Code,''.
        (14) Section 284 is amended--
            (A) by striking ``section 376'' both places it appears and 
        inserting ``section 276'';
            (B) in subsection (f), by inserting ``)'' after ``Stat. 
        1564)'';
            (C) in subsection (g)(2), by striking ``section 375'' and 
        inserting ``section 275''; and
            (D) in subsection (h)(1)(A)(vi)(VI) by striking ``section 
        1004 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
        1991 (10 U.S.C. 374 note) and''.
        (15) The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter V of 
    chapter 16 is amended by striking ``Sec.'' after the item relating 
    to section 350.
        (16) Section 341(e)(2)(A) is amended by adding a period at the 
    end.
        (17) Section 526(k) is amended by inserting ``the'' before 
    ``number of general officers''.
        (18) Section 649j is amended by striking ``(a) In General.-
    The'' and inserting ``The''.
        (19) Section 651(a) is amended by inserting ``shall serve'' 
    after ``(50 U.S.C. 3806(d)(1))''.
        (20) The heading of section 928b (article 128b of the Uniform 
    Code of Military Justice) is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 928b. Art. 128b. Domestic violence''.
        (21) Section 1034(b)(1)(B)(ii) is amended by striking 
    ``subsection (i)'' and inserting ``subsection (j)'';
        (22) Section 1073c(a) is amended by redesignating the second 
    paragraph (4) as paragraph (6).
        (23) Section 1075(d)(1) is amended in the table by striking 
    ``25% of out of network'' and inserting ``25% out of network''.
        (24) Section 1076d(d)(1) is amended by striking ``section 1075 
    of this section'' and inserting ``section 1075 of this title''.
        (25) Section 1076e(d)(1) is amended by striking ``section 1075 
    of this section'' and inserting ``section 1075 of this title''.
        (26) Section 1142(c)(3) is amended by striking ``paragraph 
    (2)(B)'' and inserting ``paragraph (2)(C)''.
        (27) Section 1762(c) is amended by striking ``in at any one 
    time'' and inserting ``at any one time in''.
        (28) Section 1788a is amended in subsection (d)(1) by striking 
    ``Not later than March 1, 2019, and each March 1 thereafter'' and 
    inserting ``Not later than March 1 each year''.
        (29) Section 2208(u) is amended by inserting ``of this title'' 
    after ``2805'' each place it appears.
        (30) Section 2216(b)(1) is amended by striking ``subsection 
    (c)(1)(B)(iii)'' and inserting ``subsection (c)(1)(B)(ii)''.
        (31) Section 2222(i)(11) is amended by striking ``subsection 
    (a)(6)(A)'' and inserting ``subsection (e)(6)(A)''.
        (32) Section 2228(a)(2) is amended by striking the second 
    period at the end.
        (33) The item relating to section 2229b in the table of 
    sections at the beginning of chapter 131 is amended to read as 
    follows:

``2229b. Comptroller General assessment of acquisition programs and 
          initiatives.''.

        (34) Section 2273(b)(1) is amended by inserting a semicolon at 
    the end.
        (35) The heading for section 2279d is amended by striking the 
    period at the end.
        (36) The heading of section 2284, as added by section 311(a) of 
    the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
    Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1708), is amended to read 
    as follows:
``Sec. 2284. Explosive Ordnance Disposal Defense Program''.
        (37) Section 2304(f)(1)(B) is amended--
            (A) in clause (ii), by striking ``paragraph (6)(A)'' and 
        inserting ``paragraph (5)(A)''; and
            (B) in clause (iii), by striking ``paragraph (6)(B)'' and 
        inserting ``paragraph (5)(B)''.
        (38) Section 2305a(d)(1) is amended by striking ``a 
    indefinite'' and inserting ``an indefinite''.
        (39)(A) Section 2304e is amended by striking the last four 
    words of the section heading.
        (B) Section 2323a is amended--
            (i) in the section heading, by striking the last six words; 
        and
            (ii) in subsection (e)--
                (I) in paragraph (1), by striking ``102 Stat. 2468;'';
                (II) in paragraph (2), by striking ``(25 U.S.C. 
            450b(d))'' and inserting ``(25 U.S.C. 5304(d))''; and
                (III) in paragraph (3), by striking ``(25 U.S.C. 
            450b(e))'' and inserting ``(25 U.S.C. 5304(e))''.
        (C) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 137 is 
    amended by striking the last four words of the item relating to 
    section 2304e and the last six words of the item relating to 
    section 2323a.
        (40) Section 2307(a)(1) is amended by striking ``may'' and 
    inserting ``may--''.
        (41) Section 2313b(d) is amended by striking ``an task order'' 
    both places it appears and inserting ``a task order''.
        (42) Section 2329(g)(1) is amended by striking ```bridge 
    contact''' and inserting ```bridge contract'''.
        (43) Section 2339a(e)(5) is amended by striking ``section 
    3542(b)'' and inserting ``section 3552(b)(6)''.
        (44) Section 2366a(c)(1)(F) is amended by striking ``section 
    2366a(b)(6) of this title'' and inserting ``subsection (b)(6)''.
        (45) Section 2368(f)(1) is amended by striking ``transition'' 
    and inserting ``transaction''.
        (46) Section 2371b(d)(1)(C) is amended by striking ``other 
    than'' after ``sources''.
        (47) Section 2380B is amended--
            (A) by inserting ``section'' before ``2376(1) of this 
        title''; and
            (B) by striking ``purposed of'' and inserting ``purposes 
        of''.
        (48) Section 2401(e)(2) is amended by striking ``subsection 
    (f)'' and inserting ``subsection (g)''.
        (49) The item relating to section 2439 in the table of sections 
    at the beginning of chapter 144 is amended to read as follows:

``2439. Negotiation of price for technical data before development, 
          production, or sustainment of major weapon systems.''.

        (50) The item relating to subchapter II in the table of 
    subchapters for chapter 144B is amended to read as follows:

``II. Development, Prototyping, and Deployment of Weapon System 
Components or Technology........................................2447a''.

        (51) Section 2447a(a) is amended by striking ``after fiscal 
    year 2017''.
        (52) Section 2547(b)(2) is amended--
            (A) by striking ``material'' and inserting ``materiel''; 
        and
            (B) by striking ``Material'' both places it appears and 
        inserting ``Materiel''.
        (53) Section 2802(e)(1) is amended by striking ``shall comply 
    with'' and inserting ``shall--
        ``(A) comply with''.
        (54) Section 2804(b) is amended, in the second sentence--
            (A) by striking ``(1)'' and ``(2)''; and
            (B) by striking ``project and'' and inserting ``project,''.
        (55) Section 2805(d)(1)(B) is amended by inserting ``under'' 
    after ``made available''.
        (56) Section 2835a(c) is amended by striking ``(1) The 
    Secretary'' and inserting ``The Secretary''.
        (57) Section 2879(a)(2)(A) is amended by striking the comma 
    after ``2017''.
        (58) Section 2913(c) is amended by striking ``government a gas 
    or electric utility'' and inserting ``government gas or electric 
    utility''.
        (59) The item relating to section 2914 in the table of sections 
    at the beginning of chapter 173 is amended to read as follows:

``2914. Energy resilience and conservation construction projects.''.

        (60)(A) The heading of section 8749, as amended by section 
    1114(b)(2) and redesignated by section 807(d)(6) of the John S. 
    McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 
    (Public Law 115-232), is amended by capitalizing the initial letter 
    of the fifth, sixth, and seventh words and the initial letter of 
    the last two words.
        (B) The heading of section 8749a, as added by section 1114(a) 
    and redesignated by section 8(d)(6) of the John S. McCain National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-
    232), is amended by capitalizing the initial letter of the fifth, 
    sixth, and seventh words.
        (61) Section 9069(a) is amended by striking ``are'' and 
    inserting ``is''.
        (62) Section 10217(e)(4) is amended by striking ``shall an 
    individual'' and inserting ``shall be an individual''.
        (63) The item relating to section 2568a in the table of 
    sections at the beginning of chapter 152 is amended to read as 
    follows:

``2568a. Damaged personal protective equipment: award to members 
          separating from the armed forces and veterans.''.

        (64) Section 7016(b)(5)(A) is amended by striking ``Assistant 
    Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' 
    and inserting ``Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, 
    Logistics, and Technology''.
    (b) NDAA for Fiscal Year 2019.--Effective as of August 13, 2018, 
and as if included therein as enacted, the John S. McCain National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is 
amended as follows:
        (1) Section 331(g)(2) (132 Stat. 1724) is amended by inserting 
    ``of such title'' after ``chapter 2''.
        (2) Section 844(b) (132 Stat. 1881) is amended by striking 
    ``This section and the amendments made by this section'' and 
    inserting ``The amendment made by subsection (a)''.
        (3) Section 1246(1)(B) (132 Stat. 2049) is amended by adding at 
    the end before the semicolon the following: ``and transferring it 
    to appear after paragraph (15)''.
        (4) Section 2805(c) (132 Stat. 2262; 10 U.S.C. 2864 note) is 
    amended by striking ``United Facilities Criteria'' and inserting 
    ``Unified Facilities Criteria''.
    (c) NDAA for Fiscal Year 2018.--Effective as of December 12, 2017, 
and as if included therein as enacted, section 1609(b)(3) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 
115-91; 131 Stat. 1728; 10 U.S.C. 2273 note) is amended by striking ``, 
and,'' and inserting ``, and''.
    (d) NDAA for Fiscal Year 2017.--Effective as of December 23, 2016, 
and as if included therein as enacted, section 233(c)(2)(C)(ii) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 
114-328; 130 Stat. 2061; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note) is amended by striking 
``Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, Technology, and 
Logistics'' and inserting ``Assistant Secretary of the Army for 
Acquisition, Logistics, and Technology''.
    (e) NDAA for Fiscal Year 2012.--Effective as of December 31, 2011, 
and as if included therein as enacted, section 315 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 
Stat. 1358; 10 U.S.C. 2911 note) is amended by redesignating 
subsections (d), (e), and (f) as subsections (c), (d), and (e), 
respectively.
    (f) Coordination With Other Amendments Made by This Act.--For 
purposes of applying amendments made by provisions of this Act other 
than this section, the amendments made by this section shall be treated 
as having been enacted immediately before any such amendments by other 
provisions of this Act.
SEC. 1732. ESTABLISHMENT OF LEAD INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR AN OVERSEAS 
CONTINGENCY OPERATION BASED ON SECRETARY OF DEFENSE NOTIFICATION.
    (a) Notification on Commencement of OCO.--Section 113 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(n) Notification of Certain Overseas Contingency Operations for 
Purposes of Inspector General Act of 1978.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall provide the Chair of the Council of Inspectors General on 
Integrity and Efficiency written notification of the commencement or 
designation of a military operation as an overseas contingency 
operation upon the earlier of--
        ``(1) a determination by the Secretary that the overseas 
    contingency operation is expected to exceed 60 days; or
        ``(2) the date on which the overseas contingency operation 
    exceeds 60 days.''.
    (b) Establishment of Lead Inspector General Based on 
Notification.--Section 8L of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by striking ``Upon the commencement'' and all that 
        follows through ``the Chair'' and inserting ``The Chair''; and
            (B) by inserting before the period at the end the 
        following: ``upon the earlier of--
        ``(1) the commencement or designation of a military operation 
    as an overseas contingency operation that exceeds 60 days; or
        ``(2) receipt of a notification under section 113(n) of title 
    10, United States Code, with respect to an overseas contingency 
    operation''; and
        (2) in subsection (d)(1), by striking ``the commencement or 
    designation of the military operation concerned as an overseas 
    contingency operation that exceeds 60 days'' and inserting ``the 
    earlier of--
            ``(A) the commencement or designation of the military 
        operation concerned as an overseas contingency operation that 
        exceeds 60 days; or
            ``(B) receipt of a notification under section 113(n) of 
        title 10, United States Code, with respect to an overseas 
        contingency operation''.
SEC. 1733. CLARIFICATION OF AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS GENERAL FOR 
OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.
    Section 8L(d)(2) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 
App.) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (D)--
            (A) in clause (i), by striking ``to exercise'' and all that 
        follows through ``such matter'' and inserting ``to identify and 
        coordinate with the Inspector General who has principal 
        jurisdiction over the matter to ensure effective oversight''; 
        and
            (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(iii)(I) Upon written request by the Inspector General 
        with principal jurisdiction over a matter with respect to the 
        contingency operation, and with the approval of the lead 
        Inspector General, an Inspector General specified in subsection 
        (c) may provide investigative support or conduct an independent 
        investigation of an allegation of criminal activity by any 
        United States personnel, contractor, subcontractor, grantee, or 
        vendor in the applicable theater of operations.
            ``(II) In the case of a determination by the lead Inspector 
        General that no Inspector General has principal jurisdiction 
        over a matter with respect to the contingency operation, the 
        lead Inspector General may--
                ``(aa) conduct an independent investigation of an 
            allegation described in subclause (I); or
                ``(bb) request that an Inspector General specified in 
            subsection (c) conduct such investigation.''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(I) To enhance cooperation among Inspectors General and 
        encourage comprehensive oversight of the contingency operation, 
        any Inspector General responsible for conducting oversight of 
        any program or operation performed in support of the 
        contingency operation may, to the maximum extent practicable 
        and consistent with the duties, responsibilities, policies, and 
        procedures of such Inspector General--
                ``(i) coordinate such oversight activities with the 
            lead Inspector General; and
                ``(ii) provide information requested by the lead 
            Inspector General relating to the responsibilities of the 
            lead Inspector General described in subparagraphs (B), (C), 
            and (G).''.
SEC. 1734. EMPLOYMENT STATUS OF ANNUITANTS FOR INSPECTORS GENERAL FOR 
OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.
    Section 8L(d) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) 
is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (2)(E), by inserting ``(without regard to 
    subsection (b)(2) of such section)'' after ``United States Code,'';
        (2) in paragraph (3), by amending subparagraph (C) to read as 
    follows:
        ``(C)(i) An annuitant receiving an annuity under the Foreign 
    Service Retirement and Disability System or the Foreign Service 
    Pension System under chapter 8 of title I of the Foreign Service 
    Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4041 et seq.) who is reemployed under this 
    subsection--
            ``(I) shall continue to receive the annuity; and
            ``(II) shall not be considered a participant for purposes 
        of chapter 8 of title I of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 
        U.S.C. 4041 et seq.) or an employee for purposes of subchapter 
        III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
        ``(ii) An annuitant described in clause (i) may elect in 
    writing for the reemployment of the annuitant under this subsection 
    to be subject to section 824 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 
    U.S.C. 4064). A reemployed annuitant shall make an election under 
    this clause not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    reemployment of the annuitant.''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(5)(A) A person employed by a lead Inspector General for an 
overseas contingency operation under this section shall acquire 
competitive status for appointment to any position in the competitive 
service for which the employee possesses the required qualifications 
upon the completion of 2 years of continuous service as an employee 
under this section.
    ``(B) No person who is first employed as described in subparagraph 
(A) more than 2 years after the date of the enactment of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 may acquire competitive 
status under subparagraph (A).''.
SEC. 1735. EXTENSION OF NATIONAL SECURITY COMMISSION ON ARTIFICIAL 
INTELLIGENCE.
    (a) Extension.--Subsection (e) of section 1051 of the John S. 
McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public 
Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1962) is amended by striking ``October 1, 2020'' 
and inserting ``October 1, 2021''.
    (b) Authority to Accept Gifts.--Subsection (a) of such section is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(8) Authority to accept gifts.--The Commission may accept, 
    use, and dispose of gifts or donations of services, goods, and 
    property from non-Federal entities for the purposes of aiding and 
    facilitating the work of the Commission. The authority in this 
    paragraph does not extend to gifts of money.''.
    (c) Reports.--Subsection (c) of such section is amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
        (2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
    paragraphs:
        ``(2) Interim reports.--Not later than each of December 1, 
    2019, and December 1, 2020, the Commission shall submit as 
    described in that paragraph an interim report on the review 
    required under subsection (b).
        ``(3) Final report.--Not later than March 1, 2021, the 
    Commission shall submit as described in paragraph (1) a 
    comprehensive final report on the review required under subsection 
    (b).''.
SEC. 1736. EXEMPTION FROM CALCULATION OF MONTHLY INCOME, FOR PURPOSES 
OF BANKRUPTCY LAWS, OF CERTAIN PAYMENTS FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS 
AFFAIRS AND THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    Section 101(10A) of title 11, United States Code, is amended by 
striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the following:
            ``(B)(i) includes any amount paid by any entity other than 
        the debtor (or in a joint case the debtor and the debtor's 
        spouse), on a regular basis for the household expenses of the 
        debtor or the debtor's dependents (and, in a joint case, the 
        debtor's spouse if not otherwise a dependent); and
            ``(ii) excludes--
                ``(I) benefits received under the Social Security Act 
            (42 U.S.C. 301 et seq.);
                ``(II) payments to victims of war crimes or crimes 
            against humanity on account of their status as victims of 
            such crimes;
                ``(III) payments to victims of international terrorism 
            or domestic terrorism, as those terms are defined in 
            section 2331 of title 18, on account of their status as 
            victims of such terrorism; and
                ``(IV) any monthly compensation, pension, pay, annuity, 
            or allowance paid under title 10, 37, or 38 in connection 
            with a disability, combat-related injury or disability, or 
            death of a member of the uniformed services, except that 
            any retired pay excluded under this subclause shall include 
            retired pay paid under chapter 61 of title 10 only to the 
            extent that such retired pay exceeds the amount of retired 
            pay to which the debtor would otherwise be entitled if 
            retired under any provision of title 10 other than chapter 
            61 of that title.''.
SEC. 1737. EXTENSION OF POSTAGE STAMP FOR BREAST CANCER RESEARCH.
    Section 414(h) of title 39, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``2019'' and inserting ``2027''.
SEC. 1738. NATIONAL COMMISSION ON MILITARY AVIATION SAFETY.
    (a) Extension of Deadline for Report.--Subsection (h)(2) of section 
1087 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is amended by striking ``March 1, 
2020'' and inserting ``December 1, 2020''.
    (b) Secretary of Defense Report.--Such section is further amended 
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(m) Report to Congress.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
of the submittal of the report under subsection (h)(2), the Secretary 
of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of each of the military 
departments, shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
Senate and House of Representatives a report that includes each of the 
following:
        ``(1) An assessment of the findings and conclusions of the 
    Commission.
        ``(2) The plan of the Secretaries for implementing the 
    recommendations of the Commission.
        ``(3) Any other actions taken or planned by the Secretary of 
    Defense or the Secretary of any of the military departments to 
    improve military aviation safety.''.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--In addition to any other 
amounts authorized to be appropriated for the National Commission on 
Military Aviation Safety established under section 1087 of the John S. 
McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public 
Law 115-232), of the amounts authorized to be appropriated for 
Operation and Maintenance, Defense-wide for fiscal year 2020, as 
specified in the funding table in section 4301, $3,000,000 shall be 
available for the National Commission on Aviation Safety.
SEC. 1739. GUARANTEE OF RESIDENCY FOR SPOUSES OF MEMBERS OF THE 
UNIFORMED SERVICES.
    (a) In General.--Title VI of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act 
(50 U.S.C. 4021 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following 
new section:
    ``SEC. 707. GUARANTEE OF RESIDENCY FOR SPOUSES OF SERVICEMEMBERS.
    ``For the purposes of establishing the residency of a spouse of a 
servicemember for any purpose (including the registration of a 
business), the spouse of a servicemember may elect to use the same 
residence as the servicemember regardless of the date on which the 
marriage of the spouse and the servicemember occurred.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
such Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 706 
the following new item:

``Sec. 707. Guarantee of residency for spouses of servicemembers.''.
SEC. 1740. ELECTROMAGNETIC PULSES AND GEOMAGNETIC DISTURBANCES.
    (a) EMP and GMD Mitigation Research and Development.--
        (1) Threat assessment, response, and recovery.--Section 320 of 
    the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 195f) is amended--
            (A) in the section heading, by inserting ``and threat 
        assessment, response, and recovery'' after ``development''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Threat Assessment, Response, and Recovery.--
        ``(1) Roles and responsibilities.--
            ``(A) Distribution of information.--
                ``(i) In general.--Beginning not later than June 19, 
            2020, the Secretary shall provide timely distribution of 
            information on EMPs and GMDs to Federal, State, and local 
            governments, owners and operators of critical 
            infrastructure, and other persons determined appropriate by 
            the Secretary.
                ``(ii) Briefing.--The Secretary shall brief the 
            appropriate congressional committees on the effectiveness 
            of the distribution of information under clause (i).
            ``(B) Response and recovery.--
                ``(i) In general.--The Administrator of the Federal 
            Emergency Management Agency shall--

                    ``(I) coordinate the response to and recovery from 
                the effects of EMPs and GMDs on critical 
                infrastructure, in coordination with the heads of 
                appropriate Sector-Specific Agencies, and on matters 
                related to the bulk power system, in consultation with 
                the Secretary of Energy and the Federal Energy 
                Regulatory Commission; and
                    ``(II) to the extent practicable, incorporate 
                events that include EMPs and extreme GMDs as a factor 
                in preparedness scenarios and exercises.

                ``(ii) Implementation.--The Administrator of the 
            Federal Emergency Management Agency, in coordination with 
            the Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure 
            Security Agency, and on matters related to the bulk power 
            system, the Secretary of Energy and the Federal Energy 
            Regulatory Commission, shall--

                    ``(I) not later than June 19, 2020, develop plans 
                and procedures to coordinate the response to and 
                recovery from EMP and GMD events; and
                    ``(II) not later than December 21, 2020, conduct a 
                national exercise to test the preparedness and response 
                of the Nation to the effect of an EMP or extreme GMD 
                event.

            ``(C) Research and development.--
                ``(i) In general.--The Secretary, in coordination with 
            the heads of relevant Sector-Specific Agencies, shall--

                    ``(I) without duplication of existing or ongoing 
                efforts, conduct research and development to better 
                understand and more effectively model the effects of 
                EMPs and GMDs on critical infrastructure (which shall 
                not include any system or infrastructure of the 
                Department of Defense or any system or infrastructure 
                of the Department of Energy associated with nuclear 
                weapons activities); and
                    ``(II) develop technologies to enhance the 
                resilience of and better protect critical 
                infrastructure.

                ``(ii) Plan.--Not later than March 26, 2020, and in 
            coordination with the heads of relevant Sector-Specific 
            Agencies, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate 
            congressional committees a research and development action 
            plan to rapidly address modeling shortfall and technology 
            development.
            ``(D) Emergency information system.--
                ``(i) In general.--The Administrator of the Federal 
            Emergency Management Agency, in coordination with relevant 
            stakeholders, shall maintain a network of systems, such as 
            the alerting capabilities of the integrated public alert 
            and warning system authorized under section 526, that are 
            capable of providing appropriate emergency information to 
            the public before (if possible), during, and in the 
            aftermath of an EMP or GMD.
                ``(ii) Briefing.--Not later than December 21, 2020, the 
            Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, 
            shall brief the appropriate congressional committees 
            regarding the maintenance of systems, including the 
            alerting capabilities of the integrated public alert and 
            warning system authorized under section 526.
            ``(E) Quadrennial risk assessments.--
                ``(i) In general.--The Secretary, in coordination with 
            the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Energy, and the 
            Secretary of Commerce, and informed by intelligence-based 
            threat assessments, shall conduct a quadrennial EMP and GMD 
            risk assessment.
                ``(ii) Briefings.--Not later than March 26, 2020, and 
            every four years thereafter until 2032, the Secretary, the 
            Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Energy, and the 
            Secretary of Commerce shall provide a briefing to the 
            appropriate congressional committees regarding the 
            quadrennial EMP and GMD risk assessment.
                ``(iii) Enhancing resilience.--The Secretary, in 
            coordination with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary 
            of Energy, the Secretary of Commerce, and the heads of 
            other relevant Sector-Specific Agencies, shall use the 
            results of the quadrennial EMP and GMD risk assessments to 
            better understand and to improve resilience to the effects 
            of EMPs and GMDs across all critical infrastructure 
            sectors, including coordinating the prioritization of 
            critical infrastructure at greatest risk to the effects of 
            EMPs and GMDs.
        ``(2) Coordination.--
            ``(A) Report on technological options.--Not later than 
        December 21, 2020, and every four years thereafter until 2032, 
        the Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense, 
        the Secretary of Energy, the heads of other appropriate 
        agencies, and, as appropriate, private-sector partners, shall 
        submit to the appropriate congressional committees, a report 
        that--
                ``(i) assesses the technological options available to 
            improve the resilience of critical infrastructure to the 
            effects of EMPs and GMDs; and
                ``(ii) identifies gaps in available technologies and 
            opportunities for technological developments to inform 
            research and development activities.
            ``(B) Test data.--
                ``(i) In general.--Not later than December 20, 2020, 
            the Secretary, in coordination with the heads of Sector-
            Specific Agencies, the Secretary of Defense, and the 
            Secretary of Energy, shall--

                    ``(I) review test data regarding the effects of 
                EMPs and GMDs on critical infrastructure systems, 
                networks, and assets representative of those throughout 
                the Nation; and
                    ``(II) identify any gaps in the test data.

                ``(ii) Plan.--Not later than 180 days after identifying 
            gaps in test data under clause (i), the Secretary, in 
            coordination with the heads of Sector-Specific Agencies and 
            in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the 
            Secretary of Energy, shall use the sector partnership 
            structure identified in the National Infrastructure 
            Protection Plan to develop an integrated cross-sector plan 
            to address the identified gaps.
                ``(iii) Implementation.--The heads of each agency 
            identified in the plan developed under clause (ii) shall 
            implement the plan in collaboration with the voluntary 
            efforts of the private sector, as appropriate.
        ``(3) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            ``(A) The term `appropriate congressional committees' 
        means--
                ``(i) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
            Governmental Affairs, the Committee on Armed Services, the 
            Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, and the 
            Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
            Senate; and
                ``(ii) the Committee on Transportation and 
            Infrastructure, the Committee on Homeland Security, the 
            Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Energy and 
            Commerce, and the Committee on Science, Space and 
            Technology of the House of Representatives.
            ``(B) The terms `prepare' and `preparedness' mean the 
        actions taken to plan, organize, equip, train, and exercise to 
        build and sustain the capabilities necessary to prevent, 
        protect against, mitigate the effects of, respond to, and 
        recover from those threats that pose the greatest risk to the 
        security of the homeland, including the prediction and 
        notification of impending EMPs and GMDs.
            ``(C) The term `Sector-Specific Agency' has the meaning 
        given that term in section 2201.
    ``(e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
construe--
        ``(1) to affect in any manner the authority of the executive 
    branch to implement Executive Order 13865, dated March 26, 2019, 
    and entitled `Coordinating National Resilience to Electromagnetic 
    Pulses', or any other authority existing on the day before the date 
    of enactment of this subsection of any other component of the 
    Department or any other Federal department or agency, including the 
    authority provided to the Sector-Specific Agency specified in 
    section 61003(c) of division F of the Fixing America's Surface 
    Transportation Act (6 U.S.C. 121 note), including the authority 
    under section 215 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 824o), and 
    including the authority of independent agencies to be independent; 
    or
        ``(2) as diminishing or transferring any authorities vested in 
    the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency or in 
    the Agency prior to the date of the enactment of this 
    subsection.''.
        (2) Technical and conforming amendment.--The table of sections 
    in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by 
    striking the item relating to section 320 and inserting the 
    following:

``Sec. 320. EMP and GMD mitigation research and development and threat 
          assessment, response, and recovery.''.

    (b) Consultation With Secretary of Energy in Preparation of 
Quadrennial Homeland Security Review.--Section 707 of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 347) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(3)(A), by inserting ``the Secretary of 
    Energy,'' after ``the Secretary of Agriculture''; and
        (2) in subsection (c)(2)(B), by inserting after review the 
    following ``or for purposes of the quadrennial EMP and GMD risk 
    assessment under section 320(d)(1)(E)''.
    (c) National Essential Functions.--
        (1) Updated operational plans.--Not later than March 20, 2020, 
    each agency that supports a national essential function shall 
    prepare updated operational plans documenting the procedures and 
    responsibilities of the agency relating to preparing for, 
    protecting against, and mitigating the effects of EMPs and GMDs.
        (2) Definition of national essential function.--In this 
    subsection, the term ``national essential functions'' means the 
    overarching responsibilities of the Federal Government to lead and 
    sustain the Nation before, during, and in the aftermath of a 
    catastrophic emergency, such as an EMP or GMD that adversely 
    affects the performance of the Federal Government.
    (d) Benchmarks.--Not later than March 26, 2020, and as appropriate 
thereafter, the Secretary of Energy, in consultation with the Secretary 
of Defense, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and, as appropriate, 
the private sector, may develop or update, as necessary, quantitative 
and voluntary benchmarks that sufficiently describe the physical 
characteristics of EMPs, including waveform and intensity, in a form 
that is useful to and can be shared with owners and operators of 
critical infrastructure. Nothing in this subsection shall affect the 
authority of the Electric Reliability Organization to develop and 
enforce, or the authority of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
to approve, reliability standards.
    (e) Pilot Test by DHS to Evaluate Engineering Approaches.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than September 22, 2020, the 
    Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Under Secretary 
    for Science and Technology of the Department of Homeland Security, 
    in coordination with the Director of the Cybersecurity and 
    Infrastructure Security Agency and the Administrator of the Federal 
    Emergency Management Agency, the Secretary of Defense, and the 
    Secretary of Energy, and in consultation with the private sector, 
    as appropriate, shall develop and implement a pilot test to 
    evaluate available engineering approaches for mitigating the 
    effects of EMPs and GMDs on the most vulnerable critical 
    infrastructure systems, networks, and assets.
        (2) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the date on which 
    the pilot test described in paragraph (1) is completed, the 
    Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Under Secretary 
    for Science and Technology of the Department of Homeland Security, 
    in coordination with the Director of the Cybersecurity and 
    Infrastructure Security Agency and the Administrator of the Federal 
    Emergency Management Agency, the Secretary of Defense, and the 
    Secretary of Energy, shall jointly brief the appropriate 
    congressional committees on the cost and effectiveness of the 
    evaluated approaches.
    (f) Pilot Test by DOD to Evaluate Engineering Approaches.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than September 22, 2020, the 
    Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of 
    Homeland Security and the Secretary of Energy, shall conduct a 
    pilot test to evaluate engineering approaches for hardening a 
    strategic military installation, including infrastructure that is 
    critical to supporting that installation, against the effects of 
    EMPs and GMDs.
        (2) Report.--Not later than 180 days after completing the pilot 
    test described in paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense shall 
    submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
    regarding the cost and effectiveness of the evaluated approaches.
    (g) Communications Operational Plans.--Not later than December 21, 
2020, the Secretary of Homeland Security, after holding a series of 
joint meetings with the Administrator of the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency, the Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure 
Security Agency, the Secretary of Defense, the Under Secretary of 
Commerce for Standards and Technology, the Assistant Secretary of 
Commerce for Communications and Information, the Federal Communications 
Commission, and the Secretary of Transportation, shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees a report--
        (1) assessing the effects of EMPs and GMDs on critical 
    communications infrastructure; and
        (2) recommending any necessary changes to operational plans to 
    enhance national response and recovery efforts after an EMP or GMD.
    (h) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' has the 
    meaning given that term in subsection (d) of section 320 of the 
    Homeland Security Act of 2002, as added by subsection (a) of this 
    section; and
        (2) The terms ``critical infrastructure'', ``EMP'', and ``GMD'' 
    have the meanings given such terms in section 2 of the Homeland 
    Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 101).
SEC. 1741. IMPROVEMENTS TO MANUFACTURING USA PROGRAM.
    (a) In General.--Section 34 of the National Institute of Standards 
and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278s) is amended to read as follows:
  ``SEC. 34. MANUFACTURING USA.
    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) Agency head.--The term `agency head' means the head of 
    any Executive agency (as defined in section 105 of title 5, United 
    States Code), other than the Department of Defense.
        ``(2) Regional innovation initiative.--The term `regional 
    innovation initiative' has the meaning given such term in section 
    27(f)(1) of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 
    (15 U.S.C. 3722(f)(1)).
    ``(b) Establishment of Manufacturing USA Program.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish within the 
    Institute a program to be known as the `Manufacturing United States 
    of America Program' or the `Manufacturing USA Program' (referred to 
    in this section as the `Program').
        ``(2) Purposes of program.--The purposes of the Program are--
            ``(A) to improve the competitiveness of United States 
        manufacturing and to increase the production of goods 
        manufactured predominantly within the United States;
            ``(B) to stimulate United States leadership in advanced 
        manufacturing research, innovation, and technology;
            ``(C) to facilitate the transition of innovative 
        technologies into scalable, cost-effective, and high-performing 
        manufacturing capabilities;
            ``(D) to facilitate access by manufacturing enterprises to 
        capital-intensive infrastructure, including high-performance 
        electronics and computing, and the supply chains that enable 
        these technologies;
            ``(E) to accelerate the development of an advanced 
        manufacturing workforce;
            ``(F) to facilitate peer exchange of and the documentation 
        of best practices in addressing advanced manufacturing 
        challenges;
            ``(G) to leverage non-Federal sources of support to promote 
        a stable and sustainable business model without the need for 
        long-term Federal funding;
            ``(H) to create and preserve jobs; and
            ``(I) to contribute to the development of regional 
        innovation initiatives across the United States.
        ``(3) Support.--The Secretary, acting through the Director, 
    shall carry out the purposes set forth in paragraph (2) by 
    supporting--
            ``(A) the Manufacturing USA Network established under 
        subsection (b); and
            ``(B) the establishment of Manufacturing USA institutes.
        ``(4) Director.--The Secretary shall carry out the Program 
    through the Director.
    ``(c) Establishment of Manufacturing USA Network.--
        ``(1) In general.--As part of the Program, the Secretary shall 
    establish a network of Manufacturing USA institutes.
        ``(2) Designation.--The network established under paragraph (1) 
    shall be known as the `Manufacturing United States of America 
    Network' or the `Manufacturing USA Network' (referred to in this 
    section as the `Network').
    ``(d) Manufacturing USA Institutes.--
        ``(1) In general.--For purposes of this section, a 
    Manufacturing USA institute is an institute that--
            ``(A) has been established by a person or group of persons 
        to address challenges in advanced manufacturing and to assist 
        manufacturers in retaining or expanding industrial production 
        and jobs in the United States;
            ``(B) has a predominant focus on a manufacturing process, 
        novel material, enabling technology, supply chain integration 
        methodology, or another relevant aspect of advanced 
        manufacturing, such as nanotechnology applications, advanced 
        ceramics, photonics and optics, composites, biobased and 
        advanced materials, flexible hybrid technologies, tool 
        development for microelectronics, food manufacturing, 
        superconductors, advanced battery technologies, robotics, 
        advanced sensors, quantum information science, supply chain 
        water optimization, aeronautics and advanced materials, and 
        graphene and graphene commercialization;
            ``(C) has the potential--
                ``(i) to improve the competitiveness of United States 
            manufacturing, including key advanced manufacturing 
            technologies such as nanotechnology, advanced ceramics, 
            photonics and optics, composites, biobased and advanced 
            materials, flexible hybrid technologies, tool development 
            for microelectronics, food manufacturing, superconductors, 
            advanced battery technologies, robotics, advanced sensors, 
            quantum information science, supply chain water 
            optimization, aeronautics and advanced materials, and 
            graphene and graphene commercialization;
                ``(ii) to accelerate non-Federal investment in advanced 
            manufacturing production capacity in the United States; or
                ``(iii) to enable the commercial application of new 
            technologies or industry-wide manufacturing processes; and
            ``(D) includes active participation among representatives 
        from multiple industrial entities, research universities, 
        community colleges, and other entities as appropriate, which 
        may include industry-led consortia, career and technical 
        education schools, Federal laboratories, State, local, and 
        Tribal governments, businesses, educational institutions, and 
        nonprofit organizations.
        ``(2) Activities.--
            ``(A) Required activities.--For purposes of this section, a 
        Manufacturing USA institute is also an institute that carries 
        out the following:
                ``(i) Research, development, and demonstration 
            projects, including proof-of-concept development and 
            prototyping, to reduce the cost, time, or risk of 
            commercializing new technologies and improvements in 
            existing technologies, processes, products, and research 
            and development of materials to solve precompetitive 
            industrial problems with economic or national security 
            implications.
                ``(ii) Development and implementation of education, 
            training, and workforce recruitment courses, materials, and 
            programs addressing workforce needs through training and 
            education programs at all appropriate education levels, 
            including programs on applied engineering.
                ``(iii) Development of innovative methodologies and 
            practices for supply chain integration and introduction of 
            new technologies into supply chains, as appropriate.
                ``(iv) Outreach and engagement with small and medium-
            sized manufacturing enterprises, including women, minority, 
            and veteran owned manufacturing enterprises, in addition to 
            large manufacturing enterprises.
                ``(v) Development of roadmaps or leveraging of existing 
            roadmaps with respect to technology areas being pursued by 
            that Manufacturing USA institute that take into account the 
            research and development undertaken at other Manufacturing 
            USA institutes and Federal agencies with respect to such 
            areas.
            ``(B) Permissible activities.--In addition to the 
        activities set forth under subparagraph (A), a Manufacturing 
        USA institute may carry out such other activities as may be 
        consistent with the purposes set forth under subsection (b)(2).
        ``(3) Additional manufacturing usa institutes.--
            ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (C), 
        the National Additive Manufacturing Innovation Institute and 
        other manufacturing institutes formally recognized as 
        Manufacturing USA institutes pursuant to Federal law or 
        executive actions, or under pending interagency review for such 
        recognition as of December 16, 2014, shall be considered 
        Manufacturing USA institutes for purposes of this section.
            ``(B) Network participation.--Except as provided in 
        subparagraph (C), an institute that is substantially similar to 
        an institute described by paragraphs (1) and (2) but does not 
        meet every element of such description and does not receive 
        financial assistance under subsection (e) may, upon request of 
        the institute, be recognized as a Manufacturing USA institute 
        by the Secretary for purposes of participation in the Network.
            ``(C) Applicability.--Effective beginning on the date of 
        the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2020, an institute shall be treated as a 
        Manufacturing USA institute under this section and subject to 
        subsections (b)(2), (d), and (e) in the same manner and to the 
        same extent as such provisions apply to a Manufacturing USA 
        institute described by paragraphs (1) and (2) if such 
        institute--
                ``(i)(I) is, as of such date of enactment, considered a 
            Manufacturing USA institute under subparagraph (A) or 
            recognized as a Manufacturing USA institute under 
            subparagraph (B); and
                ``(II) as of such date of enactment, receives Federal 
            financial assistance under subsection (e) or otherwise 
            consistent with the purposes of this section;
                ``(ii) is under pending agency review for such 
            recognition as of such date of enactment; or
                ``(iii) is currently funded by the Department of 
            Energy.
    ``(e) Financial Assistance to Establish and Support Manufacturing 
USA Institutes.--
        ``(1) Financial assistance authorized.--Under the Program, the 
    Secretary and the Secretary of Energy shall, and every other agency 
    head may, award financial assistance to a person or group of 
    persons to assist the person or group of persons in planning, 
    establishing, or supporting a Manufacturing USA institute.
        ``(2) Period and renewal of awards.--
            ``(A) Initial periods.--An award of financial assistance 
        under paragraph (1) shall be awarded for an initial period of 
        not less than 5 years and not more than 7 years.
            ``(B) Renewal of awards.--
                ``(i) Renewal authorized.--An award of financial 
            assistance under paragraph (1) may be renewed for 
            additional periods, with each period not to exceed the 
            duration of the initial period of the award, subject to a 
            rigorous merit review.
                ``(ii) Consideration of performance standards.--In 
            carrying out a rigorous merit review under clause (i) for 
            renewal of an award under such clause for a Manufacturing 
            USA institute, an agency head shall consider the extent to 
            which the institute has made progress in meeting the 
            standards of performance established pursuant to paragraph 
            (5)(C).
                ``(iii) Initial failure to meet performance 
            standards.--If, pursuant to a rigorous merit review under 
            clause (i) for renewal of an award under such clause for a 
            Manufacturing USA institute, an agency head finds that the 
            institute does not meet the standards for performance 
            established pursuant to paragraph (5)(C), the agency head 
            shall--

                    ``(I) notify the institute of any deficiencies in 
                the performance of the institute; and
                    ``(II) provide the institute one year to remedy 
                such deficiencies.

                ``(iv) Further failure to meet performance standards.--
            If a Manufacturing USA institute fails to remedy a 
            deficiency identified or to show significant improvement in 
            performance during the 1-year period set forth under clause 
            (iii)(II)--

                    ``(I) the institute shall not be eligible for 
                renewed award under clause (i); and
                    ``(II) the agency head that conducted the review 
                for renewal shall notify the institute of such 
                ineligibility.

                ``(v) Continuation of existing manufacturing usa 
            institutes.--Not withstanding clauses (i) through (iv), a 
            Manufacturing USA institute already in existence or 
            undergoing a renewal process prior to December 1, 2019--

                    ``(I) may continue to receive support for the 
                duration of the original funding award beginning on the 
                date of establishment of that institute; and
                    ``(II) shall be eligible for renewal of that 
                funding pursuant to clause (i).

        ``(3) Application for financial assistance.--
            ``(A) In general.--A person or group of persons seeking 
        financial assistance under paragraph (1) shall submit to an 
        agency head an application therefor at such time, in such 
        manner, and containing such information as the agency head may 
        require.
            ``(B) Requirements.--An application submitted under 
        subparagraph (A) for an institute shall, at a minimum include 
        the following:
                ``(i) A description of the specific sources and amounts 
            of non-Federal financial support for the institute on the 
            date financial assistance is sought.
                ``(ii) A description of the anticipated sources and 
            amounts of non-Federal financial support during the period 
            for which the institute could be eligible for continued 
            Federal financial assistance under this section.
        ``(4) Selection.--
            ``(A) Competitive, merit review.--In awarding financial 
        assistance under paragraph (1), an agency head shall--
                ``(i) use a competitive, merit review process that 
            includes review by a diverse group of individuals with 
            relevant expertise from both the private and public 
            sectors; and
                ``(ii) ensure that the technology focus of a 
            Manufacturing USA institute does not substantially 
            duplicate the technology focus of any other Manufacturing 
            USA institute.
            ``(B) Participation in process.--
                ``(i) Prohibition on participation by political 
            appointees.--The review required by subparagraph (A)(i) may 
            not include a review by a group of individuals that 
            includes a political appointee.
                ``(ii) Conflict of interest policies.--Each agency head 
            shall implement a conflict of interest policy that--

                    ``(I) ensures public transparency and 
                accountability in the process used under subparagraph 
                (A)(i); and
                    ``(II) requires full disclosure of any real or 
                potential conflicts of interest on the parts of 
                individuals that participate in the process used under 
                subparagraph (A)(i).

                ``(iii) Definition of political appointee.--For 
            purposes of this subparagraph, the term `political 
            appointee' has the meaning given such term in section 
            714(h) of title 38, United States Code.
            ``(C) Considerations.--In selecting a person or group of 
        persons who submitted an application to an agency head under 
        paragraph (3) for an award of financial assistance under 
        paragraph (1) for a Manufacturing USA institute, the agency 
        head shall consider, at a minimum, the following:
                ``(i) The potential of the Manufacturing USA institute 
            to advance domestic manufacturing and the likelihood of 
            economic impact, including the creation or preservation of 
            jobs, in the predominant focus areas of the institute.
                ``(ii) The commitment of continued financial support, 
            advice, participation, and other contributions from non-
            Federal sources, to provide leverage and resources to 
            promote a stable and sustainable business model.
                ``(iii) Whether the financial support provided to the 
            Manufacturing USA institute from non-Federal sources 
            exceeds the requested Federal financial assistance.
                ``(iv) How the Manufacturing USA institute will 
            increase the non-Federal investment in advanced 
            manufacturing research in the United States.
                ``(v) How the Manufacturing USA institute will engage 
            with small and medium-sized manufacturing enterprises to 
            improve the capacity of such enterprises to commercialize 
            new processes and technologies and to improve the domestic 
            supply chain.
                ``(vi) How the Manufacturing USA institute will carry 
            out educational and workforce activities that meet 
            industrial needs related to the predominant focus areas of 
            the institute.
                ``(vii) How the Manufacturing USA institute will 
            advance economic competitiveness and generate substantial 
            benefits to the Nation that extend beyond the direct return 
            to participants in the Program.
                ``(viii) Whether the predominant focus of the 
            Manufacturing USA institute is a manufacturing process, 
            novel material, enabling technology, supply chain 
            integration methodology, or other relevant aspect of 
            advanced manufacturing that has not already been 
            commercialized, marketed, distributed, or sold by another 
            entity.
                ``(ix) How the Manufacturing USA institute will 
            strengthen and leverage the industrial, research, 
            entrepreneurship, and other assets of a region.
                ``(x) How the Manufacturing USA institute will 
            encourage the education and training of veterans and 
            individuals with disabilities.
        ``(5) Performance measurement, transparency, and 
    accountability.--For each award of financial assistance under 
    paragraph (1) by an agency head, the agency head shall--
            ``(A) develop metrics to assess the effectiveness of the 
        activities funded in making progress toward the purposes of the 
        Program set forth under subsection (b)(2), including the 
        effectiveness of Manufacturing USA institutes in advancing 
        technology readiness levels or manufacturing readiness levels;
            ``(B) establish standards for the performance of 
        Manufacturing USA institutes that are based on the metrics 
        developed under subparagraph (A); and
            ``(C) for each Manufacturing USA institute supported by the 
        award, 5 years after the initial award and every 5 years 
        thereafter until Federal financial assistance under this 
        subsection is discontinued, conduct an assessment of the 
        institute to confirm whether the performance of the institute 
        is meeting the standards for performance established under 
        subparagraph (B).
        ``(6) Collaboration.--In awarding financial assistance under 
    paragraph (1), an agency head, in coordination with the National 
    Program Office, as the agency head considers appropriate, may 
    collaborate with Federal departments and agencies whose missions 
    contribute to or are affected by advanced manufacturing, including, 
    as the agency head considers appropriate, the Department of 
    Agriculture, the Department of Defense, the Department of 
    Education, the Department of Energy, the Department of Labor, the 
    Food and Drug Administration, the National Aeronautics and Space 
    Administration, the National Institutes of Health, and the National 
    Science Foundation.
        ``(7) Matching funds and preferences.--
            ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B), 
        an agency head may not, with respect to a Manufacturing USA 
        institute, award financial assistance under paragraph (1) or 
        renew an award of financial assistance under paragraph (2) 
        unless the agency head determines that non-Federal funding 
        comprises 50 percent or more of the total amount of funding 
        made available for the operation and support of the institute.
            ``(B) Waivers.--An agency head awarding financial 
        assistance under paragraph (1) with respect to a Manufacturing 
        USA institute may waive the requirements of subparagraph (A) in 
        the case of satellite centers, large capital facilities, 
        equipment purchases, workforce development, or general 
        operations.
    ``(f) Grant Program for Public Service Activities for Manufacturing 
USA Institutes Without Federal Funding.--The Secretary may award a 
grant on a competitive basis to a Manufacturing USA institute that is 
not receiving financial assistance under subsection (e) to carry out 
workforce development, outreach to small- and medium-sized 
manufacturers, and other activities that--
        ``(1) are determined by the Secretary to be in the national 
    interest; and
        ``(2) are unlikely to receive private sector financial support.
    ``(g) Authorization of Appropriations.--
        ``(1) NIST industrial technical services account.--To the 
    extent provided for in advance by appropriations Acts, the 
    Secretary may use amounts appropriated to the Industrial Technical 
    Services account to carry out this section as follows:
            ``(A) For each of the fiscal years 2015 through 2019, an 
        amount not to exceed $5,000,000.
            ``(B) For each of fiscal years 2020 through 2030, such 
        amounts as may be necessary to carry out this section.
        ``(2) Department of energy.--There are authorized to be 
    appropriated to the Secretary of Energy for the provision of 
    financial assistance under subsection (e) by the Department of 
    Energy amounts as follows:
            ``(A) $70,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020, 2021, and 
        2022.
            ``(B) $84,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 and 2024.
    ``(h) National Program Office.--
        ``(1) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish, within the 
    Institute, the National Office of the Manufacturing USA Network 
    (referred to in this section as the `National Program Office'), 
    which shall oversee and carry out the Program.
        ``(2) Functions.--The functions of the National Program Office 
    are--
            ``(A) to oversee the planning, management, and coordination 
        of the Program;
            ``(B) to coordinate with and, as appropriate, enter into 
        memorandums of understanding with Federal departments and 
        agencies whose missions contribute to or are affected by 
        advanced manufacturing, including the Department of 
        Agriculture, the Department of Defense, the Department of 
        Education, the Department of Energy, the Department of Labor, 
        the Food and Drug Administration, the National Aeronautics and 
        Space Administration, the National Institutes of Health, and 
        the National Science Foundation, to carry out the purposes set 
        forth under subsection (b)(2);
            ``(C) to develop, not later than December 16, 2015, and 
        update not less frequently than once every 3 years thereafter, 
        a strategic plan to guide the Program;
            ``(D) to establish such procedures, processes, and criteria 
        as may be necessary and appropriate to maximize cooperation and 
        coordinate the activities of the Program with programs and 
        activities of other Federal departments and agencies whose 
        missions contribute to or are affected by advanced 
        manufacturing;
            ``(E) to establish a clearinghouse of public information 
        related to the activities of the Program;
            ``(F) to act as a convener of the Network;
            ``(G) to work with Federal agencies that are not sponsoring 
        or supporting a Manufacturing USA institute to explore and 
        develop options for sponsoring or supporting a Manufacturing 
        USA institute;
            ``(H) to work with Federal agencies that are sponsoring or 
        supporting a Manufacturing USA institute to develop and 
        implement network-wide performance goals with measurable 
        targets and timelines;
            ``(I) to help develop pilot programs that may be 
        implemented by the Manufacturing USA institutes to address 
        specific purposes of the Program, including to accelerate 
        technology transfer to the private sector and to develop 
        entrepreneurship programs;
            ``(J) to provide support services to promote workforce 
        development activities;
            ``(K) to identify and disseminate best practices for 
        workforce education and training across the Network and further 
        enhance collaboration among Manufacturing USA institutes in 
        developing and implementing such practices;
            ``(L) to collaborate with the Department of Labor, the 
        Department of Education, industry, career and technical 
        education schools, local community colleges, universities, and 
        labor organizations to provide input, as appropriate, for the 
        development of national certifications for advanced 
        manufacturing workforce skills in the technology areas of the 
        Manufacturing USA institutes; and
            ``(M) to coordinate with Manufacturing USA institutes to 
        develop best practices for the membership agreements and 
        coordination of similar project solicitations.
        ``(3) Recommendations.--In developing and updating the 
    strategic plan under paragraph (2)(C), the Secretary shall solicit 
    recommendations and advice from a wide range of stakeholders, 
    including industry, small and medium-sized manufacturing 
    enterprises, research universities, community colleges, State, 
    Tribal, and local governments, and other relevant organizations and 
    institutions on an ongoing basis.
        ``(4) Report to congress.--Upon completion, the Secretary shall 
    transmit the strategic plan required under paragraph (2)(C) to the 
    Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
    and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of 
    Representatives.
        ``(5) Hollings manufacturing extension partnership.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall ensure that the 
        National Program Office leverages the capabilities of the 
        Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership into Program 
        planning to ensure--
                ``(i) significant outreach to, participation of, and 
            engagement of small- and medium-sized manufacturers in 
            Manufacturing USA institutes across the entirety of the 
            manufacturing supply chain; and
                ``(ii) that the results of the Program, including 
            technologies developed by the Program, reach small- and 
            medium-sized manufacturers and that such entities have 
            access to technical assistance, as appropriate, in 
            deploying those technologies.
            ``(B) Liaisons.--The Secretary may provide financial 
        assistance to a manufacturing extension center established as 
        part of the Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership to 
        support the purposes of the Program by providing services in 
        one or more of the following areas:
                ``(i) Support services for small- and medium-sized 
            manufacturers, that many include the designation of a 
            liaison.
                ``(ii) Assistance with workforce development.
                ``(iii) Technology transfer for small and medium-sized 
            manufacturers.
                ``(iv) Such other areas as the Secretary determines 
            appropriate to support the purposes of the Program.
        ``(6) Detailees.--Any Federal Government employee may be 
    detailed to the National Program Office without reimbursement. Such 
    detail shall be without interruption or loss of civil service 
    status or privilege.
    ``(i) Reporting and Auditing.--
        ``(1) Annual reports to the secretary.--
            ``(A) In general.--Not less frequently than once each year, 
        each agency head that is providing financial assistance under 
        subsection (e) shall--
                ``(i) require each recipient of such financial 
            assistance submit to the agency head a report that 
            describes the finances and performance of the Manufacturing 
            USA institute with respect to which the financial 
            assistance is awarded; and
                ``(ii) submit to the Secretary each report received by 
            the agency head under clause (i).
            ``(B) Elements.--Each report submitted under subparagraph 
        (A) shall include:
                ``(i) an accounting of expenditures of amounts awarded 
            to the recipient under subsection (e); and
                ``(ii) consistent with the standards for performance 
            established under subsection (e)(5)(B), a description of 
            the performance of the Manufacturing USA institute with 
            respect to--

                    ``(I) its goals, plans, financial support, and 
                accomplishments; and
                    ``(II) how the Manufacturing USA institute has 
                furthered the purposes set forth under subsection 
                (b)(2).

        ``(2) Annual reports to congress.--
            ``(A) In general.--Not less frequently than once each year 
        until December 31, 2030, the Secretary shall submit a report to 
        Congress that describes the performance of the Program during 
        the most recent 1-year period.
            ``(B) Elements.--Each report submitted under subparagraph 
        (A) shall include, for the period covered by the report--
                ``(i) a summary and assessment of the reports received 
            by the Secretary under paragraph (1);
                ``(ii) an accounting of the funds expended by the 
            Secretary under the Program, including any waivers made 
            under subsection (e)(7)(B);
                ``(iii) an assessment of the participation in, and 
            contributions to, the Network by any Manufacturing USA 
            institutes not receiving financial assistance under 
            subsection (e); and
                ``(iv) an assessment of the Program with respect to 
            meeting the purposes set forth under subsection (b)(2).
        ``(3) Assessments by comptroller general of the united 
    states.--
            ``(A) Assessments.--Not less frequently than once every 3 
        years, the Comptroller General of the United States shall 
        submit to Congress an assessment of the operation of the 
        Program during the most recent 3-year period, including an 
        assessment of the progress made towards achieving the goals 
        specified in the national strategic plan for advanced 
        manufacturing required under section 102(b)(7) of the America 
        COMPETES Reauthorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 6622(b)(7)).
            ``(B) Elements.--Each assessment submitted under 
        subparagraph (A) shall include, for the period covered by the 
        report--
                ``(i) a review of the management, coordination, and 
            industry utility of the Program;
                ``(ii) an assessment of the extent to which the Program 
            has furthered the purposes set forth under subsection 
            (b)(2);
                ``(iii) such recommendations for legislative and 
            administrative action as the Comptroller General considers 
            appropriate to improve the Program; and
                ``(iv) an assessment as to whether any prior 
            recommendations for improvement made by the Comptroller 
            General have been implemented or adopted.
            ``(C) Final assessment.--No later than December 31, 2030, 
        the Comptroller General shall submit to Congress a final report 
        regarding the overall success of the Program.
    ``(j) Additional Authorities.--
        ``(1) Appointment of personnel and contracts.--The Secretary 
    may appoint such personnel and enter into such contracts, financial 
    assistance agreements, and other agreements as the Secretary 
    considers necessary or appropriate to carry out the Program, 
    including support for research and development activities involving 
    a Manufacturing USA institute.
        ``(2) Transfer of funds.--Of amounts available under the 
    authority provided by subsection (g), the Secretary may transfer to 
    other Federal agencies such sums as the Secretary considers 
    necessary or appropriate to carry out the Program. No funds so 
    transferred may be used to reimburse or otherwise pay for the costs 
    of financial assistance incurred or commitments of financial 
    assistance made prior to December 16, 2014.
        ``(3) Authority of other agencies.--In the event that the 
    Secretary exercises the authority to transfer funds to another 
    agency under paragraph (2), such agency may accept such funds to 
    award and administer, under the same conditions and constraints 
    applicable to the Secretary, all aspects of financial assistance 
    awards under this section.
        ``(4) Use of resources.--In furtherance of the purposes of the 
    Program, the Secretary may use, with the consent of a covered 
    entity and with or without reimbursement, the land, services, 
    equipment, personnel, and facilities of such covered entity.
        ``(5) Acceptance of resources.--In addition to amounts 
    appropriated to carry out the Program, the Secretary may accept 
    funds, services, equipment, personnel, and facilities from any 
    covered entity to carry out the Program, subject to the same 
    conditions and constraints otherwise applicable to the Secretary 
    under this section and such funds may only be obligated to the 
    extent provided for in advance by appropriations Acts.
        ``(6) Covered entities.--For purposes of this subsection, a 
    covered entity is any Federal department, Federal agency, 
    instrumentality of the United States, State, local government, 
    Tribal government, territory, or possession of the United States, 
    or of any political subdivision thereof, or international 
    organization, or any public or private entity or individual.
        ``(7) Collaborations with other agencies.--The Secretary shall 
    collaborate with Federal agencies whose missions contribute to, or 
    are affected by, advanced manufacturing to identify and leverage 
    existing resources at such Federal agencies to assist Manufacturing 
    USA institutes in carrying out the purposes of the Program set 
    forth under subsection (b)(2). Such existing resources may include 
    programs--
            ``(A) at the Department of Labor relating to labor and 
        apprenticeships;
            ``(B) at the Economic Development Administration relating 
        to regional innovation, such as the Regional Innovation 
        Strategies program;
            ``(C) at the Department of Education relating to workforce 
        development, education, training, and retraining;
            ``(D) at the Department of Defense relating to procurement 
        and other authorities of the Department of Defense;
            ``(E) at the Food and Drug Administration relating to 
        biopharmaceutical manufacturing;
            ``(F) at the National Science Foundation, including the 
        Advanced Technological Education program;
            ``(G) at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
        relating to procurement, workforce development, education, 
        training, and retraining;
            ``(H) at the Department of Energy relating to development 
        of clean energy technologies and other authorities of the 
        Department of Energy;
            ``(I) at the Department of Agriculture relating to outreach 
        to rural communities;
            ``(J) additional programs that the Secretary determines are 
        appropriate to support the activities of existing Manufacturing 
        USA institutes; and
            ``(K) additional programs that the Secretary determines are 
        appropriate to support the activities of existing Manufacturing 
        USA institutes.
    ``(k) Patents.--Chapter 18 of title 35, United States Code, shall 
apply to any funding agreement (as defined in section 201 of that 
title) awarded to new or existing Manufacturing USA institutes with 
respect to which financial assistance is awarded under subsection (e).
    ``(l) References to Prior Names and Terminology.--Any reference in 
law, regulation, map, document, paper, or other record of the United 
States to the `Network for Manufacturing Innovation Program', the 
`Network for Manufacturing Innovation', `National Office of the Network 
for Manufacturing Innovation Program', or a `center for manufacturing 
innovation' shall be considered to be a reference to the Manufacturing 
USA Program, the Manufacturing USA Network, the National Office of the 
Manufacturing USA Network, or a Manufacturing USA institute, 
respectively.''.
    (b) Expansion of Manufacturing USA Network.--Subject to the 
availability of appropriations, the Secretary of Commerce shall take 
such actions as may be necessary to increase the number of 
Manufacturing USA institutes that participate in the Manufacturing USA 
Network.
SEC. 1742. REGIONAL INNOVATION PROGRAM.
    Section 27 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 
1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722) is amended to read as follows:
  ``SEC. 27. REGIONAL INNOVATION PROGRAM.
    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) Eligible recipient.--The term `eligible recipient' 
    means--
            ``(A) a State;
            ``(B) an Indian tribe;
            ``(C) a city or other political subdivision of a State;
            ``(D) an entity that--
                ``(i) is a nonprofit organization, an institution of 
            higher education, a public-private partnership, a science 
            or research park, a Federal laboratory, a venture 
            development organization, or an economic development 
            organization or similar entity that is focused primarily on 
            improving science, technology, innovation, or 
            entrepreneurship; and
                ``(ii) has an application submitted under subsection 
            (c)(4) that is supported by a State or a political 
            subdivision of a State; or
            ``(E) a consortium of any of the entities described in 
        subparagraphs (A) through (D).
        ``(2) Regional innovation initiative.--The term `regional 
    innovation initiative' means a geographically-bounded public or 
    nonprofit activity or program to address issues in the local 
    innovation systems in order to--
            ``(A) increase the success of innovation-driven industry;
            ``(B) strengthen the competitiveness of industry through 
        new product innovation and new technology adoption;
            ``(C) improve the pace of market readiness and overall 
        commercialization of innovative research;
            ``(D) enhance the overall innovation capacity and long-term 
        resilience of the region;
            ``(E) leverage the region's unique competitive strengths to 
        stimulate innovation; and
            ``(F) increase the number of full-time equivalent 
        employment opportunities within innovation-based business 
        ventures in the geographic region.
        ``(3) State.--The term `State' means one of the several States 
    of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of 
    Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American 
    Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or any 
    other territory or possession of the United States.
        ``(4) Venture development organization.--The term `venture 
    development organization' means a State or nonprofit organization 
    that contributes to regional or sector-based economic prosperity by 
    providing services for the purposes of accelerating the 
    commercialization of research.
    ``(b) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a regional 
innovation program to encourage and support the development of regional 
innovation strategies designed to increase innovation-driven economic 
opportunity within their respective regions.
    ``(c) Regional Innovation Grants.--
        ``(1) Authorization of grants.--As part of the program 
    established pursuant to subsection (b), the Secretary may award 
    grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible recipients for 
    activities designed to develop and support a regional innovation 
    initiative.
        ``(2) Permissible activities.--A grant awarded under this 
    subsection shall be used for multiple activities determined 
    appropriate by the Secretary, including--
            ``(A) planning, technical assistance, and communication 
        among participants of a regional innovation initiative to 
        improve the connectedness and strategic orientation of the 
        regional innovation initiative;
            ``(B) attracting additional participants to a regional 
        innovation initiative;
            ``(C) increasing the availability and investment of private 
        and philanthropic financing that supports innovation-based 
        business ventures; and
            ``(D) facilitating commercialization of products, 
        processes, and services, including through demonstration, 
        deployment, technology transfer, and entrepreneurial 
        activities.
        ``(3) Restricted activities.--Grants awarded under this 
    subsection may not be used to pay for--
            ``(A) costs related to the recruitment, inducement, or 
        associated financial or tangible incentives that might be 
        offered to relocate an existing business from a geographic area 
        to another geographic area; or
            ``(B) costs associated with offsetting revenues forgone by 
        1 or more taxing authorities through tax incentives, tax 
        increment financing, special improvement districts, tax 
        abatements for private development within designated zones or 
        geographic areas, or other reduction in revenues resulting from 
        tax credits affecting the geographic region of the eligible 
        recipients.
        ``(4) Applications.--
            ``(A) In general.--An eligible recipient shall submit an 
        application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and 
        containing such information and assurances as the Secretary may 
        require.
            ``(B) Components.--Each application submitted under 
        subparagraph (A) shall--
                ``(i) describe the regional innovation initiative;
                ``(ii) indicate whether the regional innovation 
            initiative is supported by the private sector, State and 
            local governments, and other relevant stakeholders;
                ``(iii) identify what activities the regional 
            innovation initiative will undertake;
                ``(iv) describe the expected outcomes of the regional 
            innovation initiative and the metrics the eligible 
            recipient will use to assess progress toward those 
            outcomes;
                ``(v) indicate whether the participants in the regional 
            innovation initiative have access to, or contribute to, a 
            well-trained workforce and other innovation assets that are 
            critical to the successful outcomes specified in the 
            application;
                ``(vi) indicate whether the participants in the 
            regional innovation initiative are capable of attracting 
            additional funds from non-Federal sources; and
                ``(vii) if appropriate for the activities proposed in 
            the application, analyze the likelihood that the 
            participants in the regional innovation initiative will be 
            able to sustain activities after grant funds received under 
            this subsection have been expended.
            ``(C) Feedback.--The Secretary shall provide feedback to 
        program applicants that are not awarded grants to help them 
        improve future applications.
            ``(D) Special considerations.--The Secretary shall give 
        special consideration to--
                ``(i) applications proposing to include workforce or 
            training related activities in their regional innovation 
            initiative from eligible recipients who agree to 
            collaborate with local workforce investment area boards; 
            and
                ``(ii) applications from regions that contain 
            communities negatively impacted by trade.
        ``(5) Cost share.--The Secretary may not provide more than 50 
    percent of the total cost of any activity funded under this 
    subsection.
        ``(6) Outreach to rural communities.--The Secretary shall 
    conduct outreach to public and private sector entities in rural 
    communities to encourage those entities to participate in regional 
    innovation initiatives under this subsection.
        ``(7) Geographic distribution.--In conducting a competitive 
    process, the Secretary shall avoid undue geographic concentration 
    among any one category of States based on their predominant rural 
    or urban character as indicated by population density.
        ``(8) Funding.--The Secretary may accept funds from other 
    Federal agencies to support grants and activities under this 
    subsection.
    ``(d) Regional Innovation Research and Information Program.--
        ``(1) In general.--As part of the program established pursuant 
    to subsection (b), the Secretary shall establish a regional 
    innovation research and information program--
            ``(A) to gather, analyze, and disseminate information on 
        best practices for regional innovation initiatives, including 
        information relating to how innovation, productivity, and 
        economic development can be maximized through such strategies;
            ``(B) to provide technical assistance, including through 
        the development of technical assistance guides, for the 
        development and implementation of regional innovation 
        initiatives;
            ``(C) to support the development of relevant metrics and 
        measurement standards to evaluate regional innovation 
        initiatives, including the extent to which such strategies 
        stimulate innovation, productivity, and economic development; 
        and
            ``(D) to collect and make available data on regional 
        innovation initiatives in the United States, including data 
        on--
                ``(i) the size, specialization, and competitiveness of 
            regional innovation initiatives;
                ``(ii) the regional domestic product contribution, 
            total jobs and earnings by key occupations, establishment 
            size, nature of specialization, patents, Federal research 
            and development spending, and other relevant information 
            for regional innovation initiatives; and
                ``(iii) supply chain product and service flows within 
            and between regional innovation initiatives.
        ``(2) Research grants.--The Secretary may award research grants 
    on a competitive basis to support and further the goals of the 
    program established under this section.
        ``(3) Dissemination of information.--Data and analysis compiled 
    by the Secretary under the program established in this subsection 
    shall be made available to other Federal agencies, State and local 
    governments, and nonprofit and for-profit entities.
        ``(4) Regional innovation grant program.--The Secretary shall 
    incorporate data and analysis relating to any grant awarded under 
    subsection (c) into the program established under this subsection.
    ``(e) Interagency Coordination.--
        ``(1) In general.--To the maximum extent practicable, the 
    Secretary shall ensure that the activities carried out under this 
    section are coordinated with, and do not duplicate the efforts of, 
    other programs at the Department of Commerce or at other Federal 
    agencies.
        ``(2) Collaboration.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall explore and pursue 
        collaboration with other Federal agencies, including through 
        multi-agency funding opportunities, on regional innovation 
        strategies.
            ``(B) Small businesses.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
        such collaboration with Federal agencies prioritizes the needs 
        and challenges of small businesses.
    ``(f) Evaluation.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not later than 5 years after Congress first 
    appropriates funds to carry out this section, the Secretary shall 
    competitively award a contract with an independent entity to 
    conduct an evaluation of programs established under this section.
        ``(2) Requirements.--The evaluation conducted under paragraph 
    (1) shall include--
            ``(A) an assessment of whether the program is achieving its 
        goals;
            ``(B) the program's efficacy in providing awards to 
        geographically diverse entities;
            ``(C) any recommendations for how the program may be 
        improved; and
            ``(D) a recommendation as to whether the program should be 
        continued or terminated.
    ``(g) Reporting Requirement.--Not later than 5 years after the 
first grant is awarded under subsection (c), and every 5 years 
thereafter until 5 years after the last grant recipient completes the 
regional innovation initiative for which such grant was awarded, the 
Secretary shall submit a summary report to Congress that describes the 
outcome of each regional innovation initiative that was completed 
during the previous 5 years.
    ``(h) Funding.--From amounts appropriated by Congress to the 
Secretary, the Secretary may use up to $50,000,000 in each of the 
fiscal years 2020 through 2024 to carry out this section.''.
SEC. 1743. AVIATION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT.
    (a) In General.--Section 625(c)(1) of the FAA Reauthorization Act 
of 2018 (Public Law 115-254) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``or'' after the 
    semicolon;
        (2) in subparagraph (D), by striking the period and inserting 
    ``; or''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(E) an organization representing aircraft users, aircraft 
        owners, or aircraft pilots.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect as if included in the enactment of the FAA Reauthorization 
Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-254).
SEC. 1744. OVERSIGHT OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EXECUTE ORDERS.
    (a) Review of Execute Orders.--Not later than 30 days after 
receiving a written request by the Chairman or Ranking Member of a 
congressional defense committee, the Secretary of Defense shall provide 
the committee, including appropriately designated staff of the 
committee, with--
        (1) an execute order approved by the Secretary or the commander 
    of a combatant command for review; and
        (2) a detailed briefing on such execute order.
    (b) Exception.--
        (1) In general.--In extraordinary circumstances necessary to 
    protect operations security or the sensitivity of the execute 
    order, the Secretary may limit review of an execute order. A 
    determination that extraordinary circumstances exist for purposes 
    of this paragraph may only be made by the Secretary and the 
    decision to limit the review of an execute order may not be 
    delegated.
        (2) Summary and other information.--In extraordinary 
    circumstances described in paragraph (1) with respect to an execute 
    order, within 30 days of receiving a written request under 
    subsection (a), the Secretary shall provide to the committee 
    concerned, including appropriately designated staff of the 
    committee--
            (A) a written explanation of the extraordinary 
        circumstances that led to the determination by the Secretary to 
        limit review of the execute order; and
            (B) a detailed summary of the execute order and other 
        information necessary for the conduct of the oversight duties 
        of the committee.
    (c) Quarterly Report.--Not later than 30 days after the date on 
which the budget of the President is submitted to Congress under 
section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, for fiscal year 2021 
and every 90 days thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
the congressional defense committees a comprehensive report identifying 
and summarizing all execute orders approved by the Secretary or the 
commander of a combatant command in effect for the Department of 
Defense as of the date of the report.
SEC. 1745. PROCESSES AND PROCEDURES FOR NOTIFICATIONS REGARDING SPECIAL 
OPERATIONS FORCES.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish and 
submit to the congressional defense committees processes and procedures 
for providing notifications to the committees regarding members of 
special operations forces, as identified in section 167(j) of title 10, 
United States Code.
    (b) Processes and Procedures.--The processes and procedures 
established under subsection (a) shall--
        (1) clarify the roles and responsibilities of the Secretaries 
    of the military departments, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
    Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict, and the Commander of 
    United States Special Operations Command;
        (2) provide guidance relating to the types of matters that 
    would warrant congressional notification, including awards, 
    reprimands, incidents, and any other matters the Secretary 
    determines necessary;
        (3) be consistent with the national security of the United 
    States;
        (4) be designed to protect sensitive information during an 
    ongoing investigation;
        (5) account for the privacy of members of the Armed Forces; and
        (6) take in to account existing processes and procedures for 
    notifications to the congressional defense committees regarding 
    members of the conventional Armed Forces.
SEC. 1746. SECURING AMERICAN SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY.
    (a) Interagency Working Group.--
        (1) In general.--The Director of the Office of Science and 
    Technology Policy, acting through the National Science and 
    Technology Council, in consultation with the National Security 
    Advisor, shall establish or designate an interagency working group 
    to coordinate activities to protect federally funded research and 
    development from foreign interference, cyber attacks, theft, or 
    espionage and to develop common definitions and best practices for 
    Federal science agencies and grantees, while accounting for the 
    importance of the open exchange of ideas and international talent 
    required for scientific progress and American leadership in science 
    and technology.
        (2) Membership.--
            (A) In general.--The working group shall include at least 
        one representative of--
                (i) the National Science Foundation;
                (ii) the Department of Energy;
                (iii) the National Aeronautics and Space 
            Administration;
                (iv) the Department of Commerce;
                (v) the Department of Health and Human Services;
                (vi) the Department of Defense;
                (vii) the Department of Agriculture;
                (viii) the Department of Education;
                (ix) the Department of State;
                (x) the Department of the Treasury;
                (xi) the Department of Justice;
                (xii) the Department of Homeland Security;
                (xiii) the Central Intelligence Agency;
                (xiv) the Office of the Director of National 
            Intelligence;
                (xv) the Office of Management and Budget;
                (xvi) the National Economic Council; and
                (xvii) such other Federal department or agency as the 
            President considers appropriate.
            (B) Chair.--The working group shall be chaired by the 
        Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy (or the 
        Director's designee).
        (3) Responsibilities of the working group.--The working group 
    established under paragraph (1) shall--
            (A) identify known and potential cyber, physical, and human 
        intelligence threats and vulnerabilities within the United 
        States scientific and technological enterprise;
            (B) coordinate efforts among agencies to share and update 
        important information, including specific examples of foreign 
        interference, cyber attacks, theft, or espionage directed at 
        federally funded research and development or the integrity of 
        the United States scientific enterprise;
            (C) identify and assess existing mechanisms for protection 
        of federally funded research and development;
            (D) develop an inventory of--
                (i) terms and definitions used across Federal science 
            agencies to delineate areas that may require additional 
            protection; and
                (ii) policies and procedures at Federal science 
            agencies regarding protection of federally funded research; 
            and
            (E) develop and periodically update unclassified 
        recommendations for policy guidance to assist Federal science 
        agencies and grantees in defending against threats to federally 
        funded research and development and the integrity of the United 
        States scientific enterprise that--
                (i) includes--

                    (I) descriptions of known and potential threats to 
                federally funded research and development and the 
                integrity of the United States scientific enterprise;
                    (II) common definitions and terminology for 
                categorization of research and technologies that are 
                protected;
                    (III) identified areas of research or technology 
                that might require additional protection;
                    (IV) recommendations for how control mechanisms can 
                be utilized to protect federally funded research and 
                development from foreign interference, cyber attacks, 
                theft or espionage, including any recommendations for 
                updates to existing control mechanisms;
                    (V) recommendations for best practices for Federal 
                science agencies, universities, and grantees to defend 
                against threats to federally funded research and 
                development, including coordination and harmonization 
                of any relevant reporting requirements that Federal 
                science agencies implement for grantees, and by 
                providing such best practices with grantees and 
                universities at the time of awarding such grants or 
                entering into research contracts;
                    (VI) a remediation plan for grantees and 
                universities to mitigate the risks regarding such 
                threats before research grants or contracts are 
                cancelled because of such threats;
                    (VII) recommendations for providing opportunities 
                and facilities for academic researchers to perform 
                controlled and classified research in support of 
                Federal missions;
                    (VIII) assessments of potential consequences that 
                any proposed practices would have on international 
                collaboration and United States leadership in science 
                and technology; and
                    (IX) a classified addendum as necessary to further 
                inform Federal science agency decisionmaking; and

                (ii) accounts for the range of needs across different 
            sectors of the United States science and technology 
            enterprise.
        (4) Policy guidance.--Not later than 270 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Science 
    and Technology Policy, in consultation with the working group 
    established under paragraph (1), shall--
            (A) develop and issue policy guidance to Federal science 
        agencies with more than $100,000,000 in extramural research in 
        fiscal year 2018 to protect against threats to federally funded 
        research and the United States science enterprise, including 
        foreign interference, cyber attacks, theft, or espionage; and
            (B) encourage consistency in the policies developed by 
        Federal science agencies with more than $100,000,000 in 
        extramural research in fiscal year 2018, as appropriate, and 
        factoring in the potential range of applications across 
        different areas of science and technology.
        (5) Coordination with national academies roundtable.--The 
    Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall 
    coordinate with the Academies to ensure that at least one member of 
    the interagency working group is also a member of the roundtable 
    under subsection (b).
        (6) Interim report.--Not later than six months after the date 
    of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Science and 
    Technology Policy shall provide a report to the relevant committees 
    that includes the inventory required under paragraph (3)(D), and an 
    update on progress toward developing the policy guidance required 
    under paragraphs (3)(E) and (4), as well as any additional 
    activities undertaken by the working group in that time.
        (7) Biennial reporting.--Two years after the date of enactment 
    of this Act, and at least every two years thereafter, the Director 
    of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall provide a 
    summary report to the relevant committees on the activities of the 
    working group and the most current version of the policy guidance 
    required under paragraph (4).
        (8) Termination.--The working group established or designated 
    under paragraph (1) shall terminate on the date that is ten years 
    after the date on which such working group is established or 
    designated.
    (b) National Academies Science, Technology and Security 
Roundtable.--
        (1) In general.--The National Science Foundation, the 
    Department of Energy, and the Department of Defense, and any other 
    agencies as determined by the Director of the Office of Science and 
    Technology Policy, shall enter into a joint agreement with the 
    Academies to create a new ``National Science, Technology, and 
    Security Roundtable'' (hereinafter in this subsection referred to 
    as the ``roundtable'').
        (2) Participants.--The roundtable shall include senior 
    representatives and practitioners from Federal science, 
    intelligence, and national security agencies, law enforcement, as 
    well as key stakeholders in the United States scientific enterprise 
    including institutions of higher education, Federal research 
    laboratories, industry, and non-profit research organizations.
        (3) Purpose.--The purpose of the roundtable is to facilitate 
    among participants--
            (A) exploration of critical issues related to protecting 
        United States national and economic security while ensuring the 
        open exchange of ideas and international talent required for 
        scientific progress and American leadership in science and 
        technology;
            (B) identification and consideration of security threats 
        and risks involving federally funded research and development, 
        including foreign interference, cyber attacks, theft, or 
        espionage;
            (C) identification of effective approaches for 
        communicating the threats and risks identified in subparagraph 
        (b) to the academic and scientific community, including through 
        the sharing of unclassified data and relevant case studies;
            (D) sharing of best practices for addressing and mitigating 
        the threats and risks identified in subparagraph (B); and
            (E) examination of potential near- and long-term responses 
        by the Government and the academic and scientific community to 
        mitigate and address the risks associated with foreign threats.
        (4) Report and briefing.--The joint agreement under paragraph 
    (1) shall specify that--
            (A) the roundtable shall periodically organize workshops 
        and issue publicly available reports on the topics described in 
        paragraph (3) and the activities of the roundtable;
            (B) not later than March 1, 2020, the Academies shall 
        provide a briefing to the relevant committees on the progress 
        and activities of the roundtable; and
            (C) the Academies shall issue a final report on its 
        activities to the relevant committees before the end of fiscal 
        year 2024.
        (5) Termination.--The roundtable shall terminate on September 
    30, 2024.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``Academies'' means the National Academies of 
    Science, Engineering and Medicine.
        (2) The term ``Federal science agency'' means any Federal 
    agency with at least $100,000,000 in basic and applied research 
    obligations in fiscal year 2018.
        (3) The term ``grantee'' means an entity that is--
            (A) a recipient or subrecipient of a Federal grant or 
        cooperative agreement; and
            (B) an institution of higher education or a non-profit 
        organization.
        (4) The term ``relevant committees'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the 
        House of Representatives;
            (B) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
        of the Senate;
            (C) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
        Representatives;
            (D) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; and
            (E) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
        Affairs of the Senate.
SEC. 1747. STANDARDIZED POLICY GUIDANCE FOR CALCULATING AIRCRAFT 
OPERATION AND SUSTAINMENT COSTS.
    Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, in 
coordination with the Director of Cost Analysis and Program Evaluation 
and in consultation with the Secretary of each of the military 
services, shall develop and implement standardized policy guidance for 
calculating aircraft operation and sustainment costs for the Department 
of Defense. Such guidance shall provide for a standardized calculation 
of--
        (1) aircraft cost per flying hour;
        (2) aircraft cost per aircraft tail per year;
        (3) total cost of ownership per flying hour for aircraft 
    systems;
        (4) average annual operation and sustainment cost per aircraft; 
    and
        (5) any other cost metrics the Under Secretary of Defense 
    determines appropriate.
SEC. 1748. SPECIAL FEDERAL AVIATION REGULATION WORKING GROUP.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of 
Transportation, and the Secretary of State, shall jointly establish a 
Special Federal Aviation Regulation (in this section referred to as the 
``SFAR'') interagency working group to review the current options for 
the Department of Defense to use contracted United States civil 
aviation to provide support for Department of Defense missions in areas 
where a Federal Aviation Administration SFAR is in effect.
    (b) Duties.--The working group shall--
        (1) analyze all options currently available for the Department 
    of Defense to use contracted United States civil aviation to 
    provide support for Department of Defense missions in areas where a 
    Federal Aviation Administration SFAR is in effect;
        (2) review existing processes of the Department of Defense, the 
    Federal Aviation Administration, and the Department of State, with 
    respect to the Department of Defense's use of contracted United 
    States civil aviation in areas where a Federal Aviation 
    Administration SFAR is in effect;
        (3) identify any issues, inefficiencies, or concerns with the 
    existing options and processes, including safety of flight, legal 
    considerations, mission delivery, and security considerations; and
        (4) develop recommendations, if any, to improve existing 
    processes or expand the options available for the Department of 
    Defense to use contracted United States civil aviation to provide 
    support to Department of Defense missions in areas where a Federal 
    Aviation Administration SFAR is in effect.
    (c) Members.--
        (1) Appointment.--The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of 
    Transportation, and the Secretary of State shall each appoint not 
    more than 5 members to the working group with expertise in civil 
    aviation safety, state aircraft operations, the provision of 
    contracted aviation support to the Department of Defense, and the 
    coordination of such efforts between the Department of Defense, the 
    Department of State, and the Federal Aviation Administration. The 5 
    members appointed by the Secretary of Transportation shall include 
    at least 3 members from the Federal Aviation Administration.
        (2) Qualifications.--All working group members shall be full-
    time employees of the Federal Government with appropriate security 
    clearances to allow discussion of all classified information and 
    materials necessary to fulfill the working group's duties pursuant 
    to subsection (b).
    (d) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date it is 
established, the working group shall submit a report on its findings 
and any recommendations developed pursuant to subsection (b) to the 
congressional defense committees, the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.
    (e) Termination.--The working group shall terminate 90 days after 
the date the report is submitted under subsection (d).
    (f) Definitions.--In this section the following definitions apply:
        (1) The term ``United States civil aviation'' means--
            (A) United States air carriers and United States commercial 
        operators;
            (B) persons exercising the privileges of an airman 
        certificate issued by the FAA, except such persons operating 
        United States-registered aircraft for a foreign air carrier; 
        and
            (C) operators of civil aircraft registered in the United 
        States, except where the operator of such aircraft is a foreign 
        air carrier.
        (2) The term ``Federal Aviation Administration SFAR'' means the 
    Special Federal Aviation Regulation included under subpart M of 
    part 91 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations.
SEC. 1749. PROHIBITION ON NAMES RELATED TO THE CONFEDERACY.
    (a) Prohibition on Names Related to the Confederacy.--In naming a 
new asset or renaming an existing asset, the Secretary of Defense or 
the Secretary of a military department may not give a name to an asset 
that refers to, or includes a term referring to, the Confederate States 
of America (commonly referred to as the ``Confederacy''), including any 
name referring to--
        (1) a person who served or held leadership within the 
    Confederacy; or
        (2) a Confederate battlefield victory.
    (b) Asset Defined.--In this section, the term ``asset'' includes 
any base, installation, facility, aircraft, ship, equipment, or any 
other property owned or controlled by the Department of Defense or a 
military department.
    (c) Savings Clause.--Nothing in this section may be construed as 
requiring a Secretary concerned to initiate a review of previously 
named assets.
SEC. 1750. SUPPORT FOR NATIONAL MARITIME HERITAGE GRANTS PROGRAM.
    Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal 
year 2020 for the Department of Defense, the Secretary of Defense may 
contribute up to $5,000,000 to support the National Maritime Heritage 
Grants Program established under section 308703 of title 54, United 
States Code.
SEC. 1751. SUPPORT FOR WORLD LANGUAGE ADVANCEMENT AND READINESS.
    (a) Program Authority.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with 
    the Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary of 
    Education, may carry out a program under which the Secretary may 
    provide support to eligible entities for the establishment, 
    improvement, or expansion of world language study for elementary 
    school and secondary school students.
        (2) Special requirements for local educational agencies.--In 
    providing support under paragraph (1) to an eligible entity that is 
    a local educational agency, the Secretary of Defense shall support 
    programs that--
            (A) show the promise of being continued after such support 
        is no longer available;
            (B) demonstrate approaches that can be disseminated to and 
        duplicated in other local educational agencies; and
            (C) may include a professional development component.
        (3) Applications.--
            (A) In general.--To be considered for support under 
        paragraph (1), an eligible entity shall submit an application 
        to the Secretary of Defense at such time, in such manner, and 
        containing such information and assurances as the Secretary may 
        require.
            (B) Special consideration.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
        give special consideration to applications describing programs 
        that--
                (i) include intensive summer world language programs 
            for professional development of world language teachers;
                (ii) link nonnative English speakers in the community 
            with the schools in order to promote two-way language 
            learning;
                (iii) promote the sequential study of a world language 
            for students, beginning in elementary schools;
                (iv) make effective use of technology, such as 
            computer-assisted instruction, language laboratories, or 
            distance learning, to promote world language study;
                (v) promote innovative activities, such as dual 
            language immersion, partial world language immersion, or 
            content-based instruction; and
                (vi) are carried out through a consortium comprised of 
            the eligible entity receiving the grant, an elementary 
            school or secondary school, and an institution of higher 
            education (as that term is defined in section 101 of the 
            Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001)).
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means the 
    following:
            (A) A local educational agency that hosts a unit of the 
        Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps.
            (B) A school operated by the Department of Defense 
        Education Activity.
        (2) Esea terms.--The terms ``elementary school'', ``local 
    educational agency'' and ``secondary school'' have the meanings 
    given the terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary 
    Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).
        (3) World language.--The term ``world language'' means--
            (A) any natural language other than English, including--
                (i) languages determined by the Secretary of Defense to 
            be critical to the national security interests of the 
            United States;
                (ii) classical languages;
                (iii) American sign language; and
                (iv) Native American languages; and
            (B) any language described in subparagraph (A) that is 
        taught in combination with English as part of a dual language 
        or immersion learning program.
SEC. 1752. DESIGNATION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE STRATEGIC ARCTIC PORTS.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the Arctic is a region of strategic importance to the 
    national security interests of the United States and the Department 
    of Defense must better align its presence, force posture, and 
    capabilities to meet the growing array of challenges in the region; 
    and
        (2) although much progress has been made to increase awareness 
    of Arctic issues and to promote increased presence in the region, 
    additional measures, including the designation of one or more 
    strategic Arctic ports, are needed to show the commitment of the 
    United States to this emerging strategic choke point of future 
    great power competition.
    (b) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
    with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Commanding 
    General of the United States Army Corps of Engineers, the 
    Commandant of the Coast Guard, and the Administrator of the 
    Maritime Administration, shall submit to the congressional defense 
    committees a report evaluating potential sites for one or more 
    strategic ports in the Arctic.
        (2) Elements.--Consistent with the updated military strategy 
    for the protection of United States national security interests in 
    the Arctic region set forth in the report required under section 
    1071 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 
    (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 992), the report required under 
    paragraph (1) shall include--
            (A) an evaluation of the amount of sufficient and suitable 
        space needed to create capacity for port and other necessary 
        infrastructure for at least one of each of type of Navy or 
        Coast Guard vessel, including an Arleigh Burke class destroyer 
        of the Navy, a national security cutter, and a heavy polar ice 
        breaker of the Coast Guard;
            (B) an evaluation of the amount of sufficient and suitable 
        space needed to create capacity for equipment and fuel storage, 
        technological infrastructure, and civil infrastructure to 
        support military and civilian operations, including--
                (i) aerospace warning;
                (ii) maritime surface and subsurface warning;
                (iii) maritime control and defense;
                (iv) maritime domain awareness;
                (v) homeland defense;
                (vi) defense support to civil authorities;
                (vii) humanitarian relief;
                (viii) search and rescue;
                (ix) disaster relief;
                (x) oil spill response;
                (xi) medical stabilization and evacuation; and
                (xii) meteorological measurements and forecasting;
            (C) an identification of proximity and road access required 
        to an airport designated as a commercial service airport by the 
        Federal Aviation Administration that is capable of supporting 
        military and civilian aircraft for operations designated in 
        subparagraph (B);
            (D) a description of the requirements, to include 
        infrastructure and installations, communications, and logistics 
        necessary to improve response effectiveness to support military 
        and civilian operations described in subparagraph (B);
            (E) an identification of the sites that the Secretary 
        recommends as potential sites for designation as Department of 
        Defense Strategic Arctic Ports;
            (F) the estimated cost of sufficient construction necessary 
        to initiate and sustain expected operations at such sites; and
            (G) such other information as the Secretary deems relevant.
    (c) Designation of Strategic Arctic Ports.--Not later than 90 days 
after the date on which the report required under subsection (b) is 
submitted, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Chairman 
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Commanding General of the United 
States Army Corps of Engineers, the Commandant of the Coast Guard, and 
the Administrator of the Maritime Administration, may designate one or 
more ports as Department of Defense Strategic Arctic Ports from the 
sites identified under subsection (b)(2)(E).
    (d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
to authorize any additional appropriations for the Department of 
Defense for the establishment of any port designated pursuant to this 
section.
    (e) Arctic Defined.--In this section, the term ``Arctic'' has the 
meaning given that term in section 112 of the Arctic Research and 
Policy Act of 1984 (15 U.S.C. 4111).
SEC. 1753. INDEPENDENT STUDIES REGARDING POTENTIAL COST SAVINGS WITH 
RESPECT TO THE NUCLEAR SECURITY ENTERPRISE AND FORCE STRUCTURE .
    (a) Review of Nuclear Deterrence Postures.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter 
    into agreements with two federally funded research and development 
    centers for the conduct of independent reviews of alternative 
    defense postures that achieve United States national security 
    objectives and could produce cost savings. Each such review shall 
    include--
            (A) alternative nuclear deterrence postures to achieve 
        national security objectives, including two alternatives with 
        reduced and increased force posture levels;
            (B) the options for and cost impacts resulting from changes 
        to force structure, active and reserve component balance, 
        domestic and overseas basing, and other impacts resulting from 
        potential challenges to foundational planning assumptions to 
        achieve national security objectives;
            (C) the potential cost savings from alterations to the 
        current balance between the military and civilian workforces; 
        and
            (D) options for reducing service contracts in the 
        Department of Defense.
        (2) Cost data.--A federally funded research and development 
    center that conducts a review pursuant to paragraph (1) shall 
    standardize cost data through the use of Department of Defense cost 
    estimation methodologies and may make reference to appropriate 
    national security policy documents.
        (3) Access to classified information.--The Secretary of Defense 
    shall provide to such a center classified information on threat 
    capability developments, plans, and intentions of China, Russia, 
    North Korea, Iran, and violent extremist organizations.
    (b) Report and Briefings.--
        (1) Briefing on cost savings.--Not later than February 1, 2020, 
    the Comptroller General of the United States shall provide to the 
    congressional defense committees a briefing on the recommendations 
    of the Comptroller General with respect to cost savings in the 
    Department of Defense.
        (2) Briefing on efficiency initiatives.--Not later than 
    February 1, 2020, the Comptroller General of the United States 
    shall provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on 
    the recommendations of the Comptroller General with respect to the 
    efficiency initiatives undertaken by the Office of the Chief 
    Management Officer of the Department of Defense.
        (3) Report.--Subsequent to providing the briefing under 
    paragraph (2), the Comptroller General shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report on the matters covered by 
    the briefing.
SEC. 1754. COMPREHENSIVE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE POLICY ON COLLECTIVE 
SELF-DEFENSE.
    (a) Comprehensive Policy Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
prescribe a comprehensive written policy for the Department of Defense 
on the issuance of authorization for, and the provision by members and 
units of the United States Armed Forces of, collective self-defense to 
designated foreign nationals, their facilities, and their property.
    (b) Elements.--The policy required by subsection (a) shall address 
the following:
        (1) Each basis under domestic and international law pursuant to 
    which a member or unit of the United States Armed Forces has been 
    or may be authorized to provide collective self-defense to 
    designated foreign nationals, their facilities, or their property 
    under each circumstance as follows:
            (A) Inside an area of active hostilities, or in a country 
        or territory in which United States forces are authorized to 
        conduct or support direct action operations.
            (B) Outside an area of active hostilities, or in a country 
        or territory in which United States forces are not authorized 
        to conduct direct action military operations.
            (C) When United States personnel, facilities, or equipment 
        are not threatened, including both as described in subparagraph 
        (A) and as described in subparagraph (B).
            (D) When members of the United States Armed Forces are not 
        participating in a military operation as part of an 
        international coalition.
            (E) Any other circumstance not encompassed by subparagraphs 
        (A) through (D) in which a member or unit of the United States 
        Armed Forces has been or may be authorized to provide such 
        collective self-defense.
        (2) A list and explanation of any limitations imposed by law or 
    policy on the provision of collective self-defense to designated 
    foreign nationals, their facilities, and their property under any 
    of the bases in domestic or international law in the circumstances 
    enumerated in paragraph (1), and the conditions under which any 
    such limitation applies.
        (3) The procedure by which a proposal that any member or unit 
    of the United States Armed Forces provide collective self-defense 
    in support of designated foreign nationals, their facilities, and 
    their property is to be submitted, processed, and endorsed through 
    offices, officers, and officials of the Department to the 
    applicable approval authority for final decision, and a list of any 
    information, advice, or opinion to be included with such proposal 
    in order to inform appropriate action on such proposal by such 
    approval authority.
        (4) The title and duty position of any officers and officials 
    of the Department empowered to render a final decision on a 
    proposal described in paragraph (3), and the conditions applicable 
    to, and limitations on, the exercise of such decisionmaking 
    authority by each such officer or official.
        (5) A description of the Rules of Engagement applicable to the 
    provision of collective self-defense to designated foreign 
    nationals, their facilities, and their property under any of the 
    bases in domestic or international law in the circumstances 
    enumerated in paragraph (1), and the conditions under which any 
    such Rules of Engagement would be modified.
        (6) A description of the process through which policy guidance 
    pertaining to the authorization for, and the provision by members 
    of the United States Armed Forces of, collective self-defense to 
    designated foreign nationals, their facilities, and their property 
    is to be disseminated to the level of tactical execution.
        (7) Such other matters as the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (c) Report on Policy.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report setting forth the policy 
    required by subsection (a).
        (2) DoD general counsel statement.--The Secretary shall include 
    in the report under paragraph (1) a statement by the General 
    Counsel of the Department of Defense as to whether the policy 
    prescribed pursuant to subsection (a) is consistent with domestic 
    and international law.
        (3) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) may be 
    submitted in classified form.
    (d) Briefing on Policy.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
the submittal of the report required by subsection (c), the Secretary 
shall provide the congressional defense committees a classified 
briefing on the policy prescribed pursuant to subsection (a). The 
briefing shall make use of vignettes designated to illustrate real 
world application of the policy in each the circumstances enumerated in 
subsection (b)(1).
SEC. 1755. POLICY REGARDING THE TRANSITION OF DATA AND APPLICATIONS TO 
THE CLOUD.
    (a) Policy Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Chief Information Officer of the Department 
of Defense and the Chief Data Officer of the Department shall, in 
consultation with the J6 of the Joint Staff and the Chief Management 
Officer, develop and issue enterprise-wide policy and implementing 
instructions regarding the transition of data and applications to the 
cloud under the Department cloud strategy in accordance with subsection 
(b).
    (b) Design.--The policy required by subsection (a) shall be 
designed to dramatically improve support to operational missions and 
management processes, including by the use of artificial intelligence 
and machine learning technologies, by--
        (1) making the data of the Department available to support new 
    types of analyses;
        (2) preventing, to the maximum extent practicable, the 
    replication in the cloud of data stores that cannot readily be 
    accessed by applications for which the data stores were not 
    originally engineered;
        (3) ensuring that data sets can be readily discovered and 
    combined with others to enable new insights and capabilities; and
        (4) ensuring that data and applications are readily portable 
    and not tightly coupled to a specific cloud infrastructure or 
    platform.
SEC. 1756. INTEGRATED PUBLIC ALERT AND WARNING SYSTEM.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section--
        (1) the term ``Administrator'' means the Administrator of the 
    Agency;
        (2) the term ``Agency'' means the Federal Emergency Management 
    Agency;
        (3) the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
        Affairs of the Senate;
            (B) the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives; and
            (C) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
        Representatives;
        (4) the term ``public alert and warning system'' means the 
    integrated public alert and warning system of the United States 
    described in section 526 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 
    U.S.C. 321o);
        (5) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Homeland 
    Security; and
        (6) the term ``State'' means any State of the United States, 
    the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the 
    Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the 
    Northern Mariana Islands, and any possession of the United States.
    (b) Integrated Public Alert and Warning System.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
    enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall develop minimum 
    requirements for State, Tribal, and local governments to 
    participate in the public alert and warning system and that are 
    necessary to maintain the integrity of the public alert and warning 
    system, including--
            (A) guidance on the categories of public emergencies and 
        appropriate circumstances that warrant an alert and warning 
        from State, Tribal, and local governments using the public 
        alert and warning system;
            (B) the procedures for State, Tribal, and local government 
        officials to authenticate civil emergencies and initiate, 
        modify, and cancel alerts transmitted through the public alert 
        and warning system, including protocols and technology 
        capabilities for--
                (i) the initiation, or prohibition on the initiation, 
            of alerts by a single authorized or unauthorized 
            individual;
                (ii) testing a State, Tribal, or local government 
            incident management and warning tool without accidentally 
            initiating an alert through the public alert and warning 
            system; and
                (iii) steps a State, Tribal, or local government 
            official should take to mitigate the possibility of the 
            issuance of a false alert through the public alert and 
            warning system;
            (C) the standardization, functionality, and 
        interoperability of incident management and warning tools used 
        by State, Tribal, and local governments to notify the public of 
        an emergency through the public alert and warning system;
            (D) the annual training and recertification of emergency 
        management personnel on requirements for originating and 
        transmitting an alert through the public alert and warning 
        system;
            (E) the procedures, protocols, and guidance concerning the 
        protective action plans that State, Tribal, and local 
        governments shall issue to the public following an alert issued 
        under the public alert and warning system;
            (F) the procedures, protocols, and guidance concerning the 
        communications that State, Tribal, and local governments shall 
        issue to the public following a false alert issued under the 
        public alert and warning system;
            (G) a plan by which State, Tribal, and local government 
        officials may, during an emergency, contact each other as well 
        as Federal officials and participants in the Emergency Alert 
        System and the Wireless Emergency Alert System, when 
        appropriate and necessary, by telephone, text message, or other 
        means of communication regarding an alert that has been 
        distributed to the public; and
            (H) any other procedure the Administrator considers 
        appropriate for maintaining the integrity of and providing for 
        public confidence in the public alert and warning system.
        (2) Coordination with national advisory council report.--The 
    Administrator shall ensure that the minimum requirements developed 
    under paragraph (1) do not conflict with recommendations made for 
    improving the public alert and warning system provided in the 
    report submitted by the National Advisory Council under section 
    2(b)(7)(B) of the Integrated Public Alert and Warning System 
    Modernization Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-143; 130 Stat. 332).
        (3) Public consultation.--In developing the minimum 
    requirements under paragraph (1), the Administrator shall ensure 
    appropriate public consultation and, to the extent practicable, 
    coordinate the development of the requirements with stakeholders of 
    the public alert and warning system, including--
            (A) appropriate personnel from Federal agencies, including 
        the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the Agency, 
        and the Federal Communications Commission;
            (B) representatives of State and local governments and 
        emergency services personnel, who shall be selected from among 
        individuals nominated by national organizations representing 
        those governments and personnel;
            (C) representatives of Federally recognized Indian tribes 
        and national Indian organizations;
            (D) communications service providers;
            (E) vendors, developers, and manufacturers of systems, 
        facilities, equipment, and capabilities for the provision of 
        communications services;
            (F) third-party service bureaus;
            (G) the national organization representing the licensees 
        and permittees of noncommercial broadcast television stations;
            (H) technical experts from the broadcasting industry;
            (I) educators from the Emergency Management Institute; and
            (J) other individuals with technical expertise as the 
        Administrator determines appropriate.
        (4) Advice to the administrator.--In accordance with the 
    Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.), the Administrator 
    may obtain advice from a single individual or non-consensus advice 
    from each of the several members of a group without invoking that 
    Act.
    (c) Incident Management and Warning Tool Validation.--
        (1) In general.--The Administrator shall establish a process to 
    ensure that an incident management and warning tool used by a 
    State, Tribal, or local government to originate and transmit an 
    alert through the public alert and warning system meets the 
    requirements developed by the Administrator under subsection 
    (b)(1).
        (2) Requirements.--The process required to be established under 
    paragraph (1) shall include--
            (A) the ability to test an incident management and warning 
        tool in the public alert and warning system lab;
            (B) the ability to certify that an incident management and 
        warning tool complies with the applicable cyber frameworks of 
        the Department of Homeland Security and the National Institute 
        of Standards and Technology;
            (C) a process to certify developers of emergency management 
        software; and
            (D) requiring developers to provide the Administrator with 
        a copy of and rights of use for ongoing testing of each version 
        of incident management and warning tool software before the 
        software is first used by a State, Tribal, or local government.
    (d) Review and Update of Memoranda of Understanding.--The 
Administrator shall review the memoranda of understanding between the 
Agency and State, Tribal, and local governments with respect to the 
public alert and warning system to ensure that all agreements ensure 
compliance with the requirements developed by the Administrator under 
subsection (b)(1).
    (e) Future Memoranda.--On and after the date that is 60 days after 
the date on which the Administrator issues the requirements developed 
under subsection (b)(1), any new memorandum of understanding entered 
into between the Agency and a State, Tribal, or local government with 
respect to the public alert and warning system shall comply with those 
requirements.
    (f) Missile Alert and Warning Authorities.--
        (1) In general.--
            (A) Authority.--On and after the date that is 120 days 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the authority to 
        originate an alert warning the public of a missile launch 
        directed against a State using the public alert and warning 
        system shall reside primarily with the Federal Government.
            (B) Delegation of authority.--The Secretary may delegate 
        the authority described in subparagraph (A) to a State, Tribal, 
        or local entity if, not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary submits a report to the 
        appropriate congressional committees that--
                (i) it is not feasible for the Federal Government to 
            alert the public of a missile threat against a State; or
                (ii) it is not in the national security interest of the 
            United States for the Federal Government to alert the 
            public of a missile threat against a State.
            (C) Activation of system.--Upon verification of a missile 
        threat, the President, utilizing established authorities, 
        protocols and procedures, may activate the public alert and 
        warning system.
            (D) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this paragraph shall 
        be construed to change the command and control relationship 
        between entities of the Federal Government with respect to the 
        identification, dissemination, notification, or alerting of 
        information of missile threats against the United States that 
        was in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this 
        Act.
        (2) Required processes.--The Secretary, acting through the 
    Administrator, shall establish a process to promptly notify a State 
    warning point, and any State entities that the Administrator 
    determines appropriate, following the issuance of an alert 
    described in paragraph (1)(A) so the State may take appropriate 
    action to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the residents 
    of the State.
        (3) Guidance.--The Secretary, acting through the Administrator, 
    shall work with the Governor of a State warning point to develop 
    and implement appropriate protective action plans to respond to an 
    alert described in paragraph (1)(A) for that State.
        (4) Study and report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall--
            (A) examine the feasibility of establishing an alert 
        designation under the public alert and warning system that 
        would be used to alert and warn the public of a missile threat 
        while concurrently alerting a State warning point so that a 
        State may activate related protective action plans; and
            (B) submit a report of the findings under subparagraph (A), 
        including of the costs and timeline for taking action to 
        implement an alert designation described in subparagraph (A), 
        to--
                (i) the Subcommittee on Homeland Security of the 
            Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
                (ii) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
            Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
                (iii) the Subcommittee on Homeland Security of the 
            Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
            Representatives;
                (iv) the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 
            of the House of Representatives; and
                (v) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
            Representatives.
    (g) Use of Integrated Public Alert and Warning System Lab.--Not 
later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Administrator shall--
        (1) develop a program to increase the utilization of the public 
    alert and warning system lab of the Agency by State, Tribal, and 
    local governments to test incident management and warning tools and 
    train emergency management professionals on alert origination 
    protocols and procedures; and
        (2) submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
    describing--
            (A) the impact on utilization of the public alert and 
        warning system lab by State, Tribal, and local governments, 
        with particular attention given to the impact on utilization in 
        rural areas, resulting from the program developed under 
        paragraph (1); and
            (B) any further recommendations that the Administrator 
        would make for additional statutory or appropriations authority 
        necessary to increase the utilization of the public alert and 
        warning system lab by State, Tribal, and local governments.
    (h) Awareness of Alerts and Warnings.--Not later than 1 year after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall--
        (1) conduct a review of the National Watch Center and each 
    Regional Watch Center of the Agency; and
        (2) submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
    on the review conducted under paragraph (1), which shall include--
            (A) an assessment of the technical capability of the 
        National and Regional Watch Centers described in paragraph (1) 
        to be notified of alerts and warnings issued by a State through 
        the public alert and warning system;
            (B) a determination of which State alerts and warnings the 
        National and Regional Watch Centers described in paragraph (1) 
        should be aware of; and
            (C) recommendations for improving the ability of the 
        National and Regional Watch Centers described in paragraph (1) 
        to receive any State alerts and warnings that the Administrator 
        determines are appropriate.
    (i) Reporting False Alerts.--Not later than 15 days after the date 
on which a State, Tribal, or local government official transmits a 
false alert under the public alert and warning system, the 
Administrator shall report to the appropriate congressional committees 
on--
        (1) the circumstances surrounding the false alert;
        (2) the content, cause, and population impacted by the false 
    alert; and
        (3) any efforts to mitigate any negative impacts of the false 
    alert.
    (j) Reporting Participation Rates.--The Administrator shall, on an 
annual basis, report to the appropriate congressional committees on--
        (1) participation rates in the public alert and warning system; 
    and
        (2) any efforts to expand alert, warning, and interoperable 
    communications to rural and underserved areas.
    (k) Timeline for Compliance.--Each State shall be given a 
reasonable amount of time to comply with any new rules, regulations, or 
requirements imposed under this section.
SEC. 1757. IMPROVING QUALITY OF INFORMATION IN BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION 
REQUEST PACKAGES.
    (a) Report on Metrics and Best Practices.--Not later than 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the 
Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency, which serves as the 
primary executive branch service provider for background investigations 
for eligibility for access to classified information, eligibility to 
hold a sensitive position, and for suitability and fitness for other 
matters pursuant to Executive Order 13467 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note; 
relating to reforming processes related to suitability for Government 
employment, fitness for contractor employees, and eligibility for 
access to classified national security information), shall, in 
consultation with the Security, Suitability, and Credentialing 
Performance Accountability Council established under such executive 
order, submit to Congress a report on--
        (1) metrics for assessing the completeness and quality of 
    packages for background investigations submitted by agencies 
    requesting background investigations from the Defense 
    Counterintelligence and Security Agency;
        (2) rejection rates of background investigation submission 
    packages due to incomplete or erroneous data, by agency; and
        (3) best practices for ensuring full and complete information 
    in background investigation requests.
    (b) Annual Report on Performance.--Not later than 270 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act and not less frequently than once 
each year thereafter, the Security, Suitability, and Credentialing 
Performance Accountability Council shall submit to Congress a report on 
performance against the metrics and return rates identified in 
paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a).
    (c) Improvement Plans.--
        (1) Identification.--Not later than one year after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, executive agents under Executive Order 
    13467 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note) shall identify agencies in need of 
    improvement with respect to the quality of the information in the 
    background investigation submissions of the agencies as reported in 
    subsection (b).
        (2) Plans.--Not later than 90 days after an agency is 
    identified under paragraph (1), the head of the agency shall 
    provide the executive agents referred to in such paragraph with a 
    plan to improve the performance of the agency with respect to the 
    quality of the information in the agency's background investigation 
    submissions.
SEC. 1758. PAROLE IN PLACE FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND CERTAIN 
MILITARY DEPENDENTS.
    (a) In General.--In evaluating a request from a covered individual 
for parole in place under section 212(d)(5) of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(d)(5)), the Secretary of Homeland 
Security shall consider, on a case-by-case basis, whether granting the 
request would enable military family unity that would constitute a 
significant public benefit.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) parole in place reinforces the objective of military family 
    unity;
        (2) except as required in furtherance of the missions of the 
    Armed Forces, disruption to military family unity should be 
    minimized in order to enhance military readiness and allow members 
    of the Armed Forces to focus on the faithful execution of their 
    military missions and objectives, with peace of mind regarding the 
    well-being of their family members; and
        (3) the importance of the parole in place authority of the 
    Secretary of Homeland Security is reaffirmed.
    (c) Covered Individual Defined.--In this section, the term 
``covered individual'' means an alien who--
        (1) is a member of the Armed Forces;
        (2) is the spouse, son, or daughter of a member of the Armed 
    Forces;
        (3) is the parent of a member of the Armed Forces who supports 
    the request of such parent for parole in place; or
        (4) is the widow, widower, parent, son, or daughter of a 
    deceased member of the Armed Forces.
SEC. 1759. REPORT ON REDUCING THE BACKLOG IN LEGALLY REQUIRED 
HISTORICAL DECLASSIFICATION OBLIGATIONS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report detailing the progress made by the Secretary 
toward reducing the backlog in legally required historical 
declassification obligations of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall include, with 
respect to the Department of Defense, the following:
        (1) A plan to achieve legally mandated historical 
    declassification requirements and reduce backlogs.
        (2) A plan to incorporate new technologies, such as artificial 
    intelligence, that would increase productivity and reduce cost in 
    implementing the plan under paragraph (1).
        (3) A detailed assessment of the documents released in each of 
    the proceeding three years before the date of the report, broken 
    out by program, such as the 25 and 50 year programs.
        (4) A detailed assessment of the documents awaiting review for 
    release and an estimate of how many documents will be released in 
    each of the next three years.
        (5) Potential policy, resource, and other options available to 
    the Secretary to reduce backlogs.
        (6) The progress and objectives of the Secretary with respect 
    to the release of documents for publication in the Foreign 
    Relations of the United States series or to facilitate the public 
    accessibility of such documents at the National Archives, 
    presidential libraries, or both.
    (c) Form and Availability.--The report under subsection (a) shall 
be submitted in unclassified form, which shall be made publicly 
available, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 1760. MILITARY TYPE CERTIFICATION FOR LIGHT ATTACK EXPERIMENTATION 
AIRCRAFT.
    The Secretary of the Air Force shall make available and conduct 
military type certifications for light attack experimentation aircraft 
as needed, pursuant to the Department of Defense Directive on Military 
Type Certificates, 5030.61.

            DIVISION B--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 2001. Short title.
Sec. 2002. Expiration of authorizations and amounts required to be 
          specified by law.
Sec. 2003. Effective date.
SEC. 2001. SHORT TITLE.
    This division may be cited as the ``Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020''.
SEC. 2002. EXPIRATION OF AUTHORIZATIONS AND AMOUNTS REQUIRED TO BE 
SPECIFIED BY LAW.
    (a) Expiration of Authorizations After Five Years.--Except as 
provided in subsection (b), all authorizations contained in titles XXI 
through XXVII and title XXIX for military construction projects, land 
acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, and contributions 
to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program 
(and authorizations of appropriations therefor) shall expire on the 
later of--
        (1) October 1, 2024; or
        (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for 
    military construction for fiscal year 2025.
    (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to authorizations 
for military construction projects, land acquisition, family housing 
projects and facilities, and contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization Security Investment Program (and authorizations of 
appropriations therefor), for which appropriated funds have been 
obligated before the later of--
        (1) October 1, 2024; or
        (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for 
    fiscal year 2025 for military construction projects, land 
    acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, or 
    contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security 
    Investment Program.
SEC. 2003. EFFECTIVE DATE.
    Titles XXI through XXVII and title XXIX shall take effect on the 
later of--
        (1) October 1, 2019; or
        (2) the date of the enactment of this Act.

                 TITLE XXI--ARMY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2101. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2102. Family housing.
Sec. 2103. Authorization of appropriations, Army.
Sec. 2104. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2019 projects.
SEC. 2101. AUTHORIZED ARMY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:


                     Army: Inside the United States
------------------------------------------------------------------------
             State                   Installation            Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama.......................  Redstone Arsenal......       $38,000,000
Colorado......................  Fort Carson...........       $71,000,000
Georgia.......................  Fort Gordon...........      $107,000,000
                                Hunter Army Airfield..       $62,000,000
Kentucky......................  Fort Campbell.........       $61,300,000
Massachusetts.................  U.S. Army Natick             $50,000,000
                                 Soldier Systems
                                 Center...............
Michigan......................  Detroit Arsenal.......       $24,000,000
New York......................  Fort Drum.............       $44,000,000
North Carolina................  Fort Bragg............       $12,500,000
Oklahoma......................  Fort Sill.............       $73,000,000
Pennsylvania..................  Carlisle Barracks.....       $98,000,000
South Carolina................  Fort Jackson..........       $88,000,000
Texas.........................  Corpus Christi Army          $86,000,000
                                 Depot................
                                Fort Hood.............       $50,500,000
Virginia......................  Fort Belvoir..........       $60,000,000
                                Joint Base Langley-          $55,000,000
                                 Eustis...............
Washington....................  Joint Base Lewis-            $46,000,000
                                 McChord..............
------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Army may acquire real property and carry out the military construction 
projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:


                     Army: Outside the United States
------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Country                   Installation             Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Honduras.....................  Soto Cano Air Base......      $34,000,000
Kwajalein....................  Kwajalein Atoll.........      $40,000,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (c) Study of Near-term Facility Alternatives to House High Value 
Detainees.--
        (1) Study required.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a 
    study of alternatives to meet the near-term facility requirements 
    to safely and humanely house high value detainees current detained 
    at Naval Station Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. As part of the study, the 
    Secretary shall consider the following alternatives:
            (A) The construction of new facilities.
            (B) The repair of current facilities.
            (C) The renovation and repurposing of other facilities at 
        Naval Station Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
            (D) Such other alternatives as the Secretary considers 
        practicable.
        (2) Submission of results.--Not later than 90 days after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
    submit to the congressional defense committees a report containing 
    the results of the study conducted under paragraph (1). The report 
    shall be unclassified, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 2102. FAMILY HOUSING.
    (a) Construction and Acquisition.--Using amounts appropriated 
pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and 
available for military family housing functions as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may construct 
or acquire family housing units (including land acquisition and 
supporting facilities) at the installation, and in the amount, set 
forth in the following table:


                                              Army: Family Housing
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              State/Country                      Installation                    Units                Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pennsylvania............................   Tobyhanna Army Depot.....  Family Housing Replacement     $19,000,000
                                                                       Construction.............
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Planning and Design.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to 
the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available 
for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table 
in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may carry out architectural 
and engineering services and construction design activities with 
respect to the construction or improvement of family housing units in 
an amount not to exceed $9,222,000.
SEC. 2103. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, ARMY.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2019, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Army as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2101 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
SEC. 2104. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2019 PROJECTS.
    (a) Anniston Army Depot, Alabama.--In the case of the authorization 
contained in the table in section 2101(a) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 
2241) for Anniston Army Depot, Alabama, for construction of a weapon 
maintenance shop, as specified in the funding table in section 4601 of 
such Act (132 Stat. 2401), the Secretary of the Army may construct a 
21,000-square foot weapon maintenance shop.
    (b) United States Military Academy, New York.--The table in section 
2101(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 
(Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2241) is amended in the item relating to 
the United States Military Academy, New York, by striking 
``$160,000,000'' and inserting ``$197,000,000'' for construction of a 
Consolidated Engineering Center and Parking Structure rather than the 
separate projects specified in the funding table in section 4601 of 
such Act (132 Stat. 2401).

                 TITLE XXII--NAVY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2201. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2202. Family housing.
Sec. 2203. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2204. Authorization of appropriations, Navy.
Sec. 2205. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2017 project.
SEC. 2201. AUTHORIZED NAVY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:


                                         Navy: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                  Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Arizona.......................................  Marine Corps Air Station Yuma...................    $189,760,000
California....................................  Camp Pendleton..................................    $185,569,000
                                                Marine Corps Air Station Miramar................     $37,400,000
                                                Naval Air Weapons Station China Lake............     $64,500,000
                                                Navel Base Coronado.............................    $165,830,000
                                                Naval Base San Diego............................      $9,900,000
                                                Naval Weapons Station Seal Beach................    $123,310,000
                                                Travis Air Force Base...........................     $64,000,000
Connecticut...................................  Naval Submarine Base New London.................     $72,260,000
Florida.......................................  Blount Island...................................     $18,700,000
                                                Naval Air Station Jacksonville..................     $32,420,000
Guam..........................................  Joint Region Marianas...........................    $226,000,000
Hawaii........................................  Marine Corps Air Station Kaneohe Bay............    $134,050,000
                                                Naval Ammunition Depot West Loch................     $53,790,000
Maryland......................................  Saint Inigoes...................................     $15,000,000
North Carolina................................  Camp Lejeune....................................    $229,010,000
                                                Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point...........    $114,570,000
                                                Marine Corps Air Station New River..............     $11,320,000
Pennsylvania..................................  Philadelphia....................................     $74,630,000
South Carolina................................  Parris Island...................................     $37,200,000
Virginia......................................  Marine Corps Base Quantico......................    $143,350,000
                                                Naval Station Norfolk...........................    $139,100,000
                                                Portsmouth Naval Shipyard.......................     $48,930,000
                                                Yorktown Naval Weapons Station..................     $59,000,000
Washington....................................  Bremerton.......................................     $51,010,000
                                                Keyport.........................................     $25,050,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:


                                         Navy: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                 Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Australia.....................................  Darwin..........................................    $211,500,000
Japan.........................................  Fleet Activities Yokosuka.......................    $174,692,000
                                                Marine Corps Air Station Iwakuni................     $15,870,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (c) Report Required as Condition of Authorization.--
        (1) Report.--At the same time that the budget of the President 
    is submitted to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
    States Code, for fiscal year 2021, the Secretary of the Navy shall 
    submit to the congressional defense committees a report describing, 
    for each project authorized in the first item in the table in 
    subsection (b) for Darwin that is required to support the full 
    complement of the Marine Rotational Force-Darwin--
            (A) the required infrastructure investments for the 
        project;
            (B) the source of funding, including funds provided by the 
        Government of Australia, for the project; and
            (C) the proposed year for implementation of the project.
        (2) Condition.--The Secretary of the Navy may not commence a 
    project authorized in the first item in the table in subsection (b) 
    for Darwin until the report under paragraph (1) has been submitted.
SEC. 2202. FAMILY HOUSING.
    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2204(a) and available for military family 
housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, 
the Secretary of the Navy may carry out architectural and engineering 
services and construction design activities with respect to the 
construction or improvement of family housing units in an amount not to 
exceed $5,863,000.
SEC. 2203. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.
    Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using 
amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in 
section 2204(a) and available for military family housing functions as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Navy may improve existing military family housing units in an amount 
not to exceed $41,798,000.
SEC. 2204. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NAVY.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2019, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Navy, as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2201 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
SEC. 2205. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2017 PROJECT.
    The table in section 2201(a) of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2691) is 
amended in the item relating to Bangor, Washington, by striking 
``$113,415,000'' and inserting ``$161,415,000'' for construction of a 
SEAWOLF Class Service Pier, as specified in the funding table in 
section 4601 of such Act (130 Stat. 2876).

              TITLE XXIII--AIR FORCE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2301. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2302. Family housing.
Sec. 2303. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2304. Authorization of appropriations, Air Force.
Sec. 2305. Modification of authorities to carry out phased Joint 
          Intelligence Analysis Complex consolidation.
Sec. 2306. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2016 project.
Sec. 2307. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2017 project.
Sec. 2308. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2018 projects.
Sec. 2309. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2019 projects.
SEC. 2301. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:


                   Air Force: Inside the United States
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   Installation or
            State                     Location               Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alaska.......................  Eielson Air Force Base         $8,600,000
Arkansas.....................  Little Rock Air Force         $47,000,000
                                Base.
California...................   Travis Air Force Base        $43,100,000
Colorado.....................  Peterson Air Force            $54,000,000
                                Base.
                               Schriever Air Force          $148,000,000
                                Base.
                               United States Air             $49,000,000
                                Force Academy........
Georgia......................  Moody Air Force Base..        $12,500,000
Guam.........................  Joint Region Marianas.        $65,000,000
Illinois.....................  Scott Air Force Base..       $100,000,000
Mariana Islands..............  Tinian................       $316,000,000
Missouri.....................  Whiteman Air Force            $27,000,000
                                Base.
Montana......................  Malmstrom Air Force          $235,000,000
                                Base.
Nevada.......................  Nellis Air Force Base.        $65,200,000
New Mexico...................  Holloman Air Force            $20,000,000
                                Base.
                               Kirtland Air Force            $37,900,000
                                Base.
North Dakota.................  Minot Air Force Base..         $5,500,000
Texas........................   Joint Base San              $243,300,000
                                Antonio.
Utah.........................  Hill Air Force Base...       $114,500,000
Washington...................  Fairchild-White Bluff.        $31,000,000
Wyoming......................  F.E. Warren Air Force         $18,100,000
                                Base.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:


                  Air Force: Outside the United States
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   Installation or
            Country                    Location              Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Australia.....................  Tindal...............        $70,600,000
Cyprus........................  Royal Air Force              $27,000,000
                                 Akrotiri.
Japan.........................  Yokota Air Base......        $12,400,000
United Kingdom................  Royal Air Force              $14,300,000
                                 Lakenheath.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2302. FAMILY HOUSING.
    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2304(a) and available for military family 
housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, 
the Secretary of the Air Force may carry out architectural and 
engineering services and construction design activities with respect to 
the construction or improvement of family housing units in an amount 
not to exceed $3,409,000.
SEC. 2303. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.
    Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using 
amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in 
section 2304(a) and available for military family housing functions as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may improve existing military family housing units in an 
amount not to exceed $53,584,000.
SEC. 2304. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, AIR FORCE.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2019, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Air Force, as specified in 
the funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2301 may not 
exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under subsection 
(a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
SEC. 2305. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITIES TO CARRY OUT PHASED JOINT 
INTELLIGENCE ANALYSIS COMPLEX CONSOLIDATION.
    (a) Fiscal Year 2015 Project Authority.--In the case of the 
authorization contained in the table in section 2301(b) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 
Stat. 3679) for Royal Air Force Croughton, United Kingdom, for Phase 1 
of the Joint Intelligence Analysis Complex consolidation, as specified 
in the funding table in section 4601 of such Act (128 Stat. 3973), the 
Secretary of the Air Force shall carry out the construction at Royal 
Air Force Molesworth, United Kingdom.
    (b) Fiscal Year 2016 Project Authority.--In the case of the 
authorization contained in the table in section 2301(b) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 
Stat. 1153), for Royal Air Force Croughton, United Kingdom, for Phase 2 
of the Joint Intelligence Analysis Complex consolidation, as specified 
in the funding table in section 4601 of such Act (129 Stat. 1294), the 
Secretary of the Air Force may construct a 5,152-square meter 
Intelligence Analytic Center, a 5,234-square meter Intelligence Fusion 
Center, and a 807-square meter Battlefield Information Collection and 
Exploitation System Center at Royal Air Force Molesworth, United 
Kingdom.
    (c) Fiscal Year 2017 Project Authority.--In the case of the 
authorization contained in the table in section 2301(b) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 
Stat. 2697), for Royal Air Force Croughton, United Kingdom, for Phase 3 
of the Joint Intelligence Analysis Complex consolidation, as specified 
in the funding table in section 4601 of such Act (130 Stat. 2878), the 
Secretary of the Air Force may construct a 1,562-square meter Regional 
Joint Intelligence Training Facility and a 4,495-square meter Combatant 
Command Intelligence Facility at Royal Air Force Molesworth, United 
Kingdom.
    (d) Conforming Repeal.--Section 2305 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 
2247) is repealed.
SEC. 2306. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2016 PROJECT.
    The table in section 2301(a) of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1152) is amended 
in the item relating to Nellis Air Force Base, Nevada, by striking 
``$68,950,000'' and inserting ``$72,050,000'' for construction of F-35A 
Munitions Maintenance Facilities, as specified in the funding table in 
section 4601 of such Act (129 Stat. 1293).
SEC. 2307. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2017 PROJECT.
    The table in section 2301(a) of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2696) is 
amended in the item relating to Fairchild Air Force Base, Washington, 
by striking ``$27,000,000'' and inserting ``$31,800,000'' for 
construction of a SERE School Pipeline Dormitory, as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601 of such Act (130 Stat. 2878).
SEC. 2308. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2018 PROJECTS.
    (a) Little Rock Air Force Base, Arkansas.--The table in section 
2301(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 
(Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1825) is amended in the item relating to 
Little Rock Air Force Base, Arkansas, by striking ``$20,000,000'' and 
inserting ``$27,000,000'' for construction of a dormitory facility, as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601 of such Act (131 Stat. 
2002).
    (b) Joint Base San Antonio, Texas.--In the case of the 
authorization contained in the table in section 2301(a) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 
Stat. 1826) for Joint Base San Antonio, Texas, the Secretary of the Air 
Force may construct--
        (1) a 750-square meter equipment building for construction of a 
    Classrooms/Dining Facility, as specified in the funding table in 
    section 4601 of such Act (131 Stat. 2003); and
        (2) a 636-square meter air traffic control tower for 
    construction of an Air Traffic Control Tower, as specified in the 
    funding table in section 4601 of such Act (131 Stat. 2003).
    (c) F.E. Warren Air Force Base, Wyoming.--The table in section 
2301(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 
(Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1825) is amended in the item relating to 
F.E. Warren Air Force Base, Wyoming, by striking ``$62,000,000'' and 
inserting ``$80,100,000'' for construction of a Consolidated Helo/TRF 
Ops/AMU and Alert Facility, as specified in the funding table in 
section 4601 of such Act (131 Stat. 2004).
    (d) Rygge Air Station, Norway.--In the case of the authorization 
contained in the table in section 2903 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 
1876) for Rygge Air Station, Norway, for replacement/expansion of a 
Quick Reaction Alert Pad, as specified in the funding table in section 
4602 of such Act (131 Stat. 2014), the Secretary of the Air Force may 
construct 1,327 square meters of aircraft shelter and a 404-square 
meter fire protection support building.
    (e) Incirlik Air Base, Turkey.--In the case of the authorization 
contained in the table in section 2903 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 
1876) for Incirlik Air Base, Turkey, for Relocating Base Main Access 
Control Point, as specified in the funding table in section 4602 of 
such Act (131 Stat. 2015), the Secretary of the Air Force may construct 
a 223-square meter pedestrian search building.
SEC. 2309. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2019 PROJECTS.
    (a) Hanscom Air Force Base, Massachusetts.--In the case of the 
authorization contained in the table in section 2301(a) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 
Stat. 2246) for Hanscom Air Force Base, Massachusetts, for the 
construction of a semi-conductor/microelectronics laboratory facility, 
as specified in the funding table in section 4601 of such Act (132 
Stat. 2405), the Secretary of the Air Force may construct a 1,000 
kilowatt stand-by generator.
    (b) Minot Air Force Base, North Dakota.--The table in section 
2301(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 
(Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2246) is amended in the item relating to 
Minot Air Force Base, North Dakota, by striking ``$66,000,000'' and 
inserting ``$71,500,000'' for construction of a Consolidated Helo/TRF 
Ops/AMU and Alert Facility, as specified in the funding table in 
section 4601 of such Act (132 Stat. 2405).
    (c) Royal Air Force Lakenheath, United Kingdom.--In the case of the 
authorization contained in the table in section 2301(b) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 
Stat. 2247) for Royal Air Force Lakenheath, United Kingdom, for the 
construction of an F-35A Dormitory, as specified in the funding table 
in section 4601 of such Act (132 Stat. 2405), the Secretary of the Air 
Force may construct a 5,900-square meter dormitory.

           TITLE XXIV--DEFENSE AGENCIES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2401. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2402. Authorized Energy Resilience and Conservation Investment 
          Program projects.
Sec. 2403. Authorization of appropriations, Defense Agencies.
SEC. 2401. AUTHORIZED DEFENSE AGENCIES CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of 
Defense may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:


                                   Defense Agencies: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                 Installation or Location                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California......................................  Beale Air Force Base.......................        $33,700,000
                                                  Camp Pendleton.............................        $17,700,000
Florida.........................................  Eglin Air Force Base.......................        $16,500,000
                                                  Hurlburt Field.............................       $108,386,000
                                                  Naval Air Station Key West.................        $16,000,000
Guam............................................  Joint Region Marianas......................        $19,200,000
Hawaii..........................................  Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam.............        $67,700,000
Maryland........................................  Fort Detrick...............................        $27,846,000
Mississippi.....................................  Columbus Air Force Base....................        $16,800,000
 North Carolina.................................  Camp Lejeune...............................        $13,400,000
                                                  Fort Bragg.................................        $84,103,000
Oklahoma........................................  Tulsa International Airport................        $18,900,000
Rhode Island....................................  Quonset State Airport......................        $11,600,000
South Carolina..................................  Joint Base Charleston......................        $33,300,000
South Dakota....................................  Ellsworth Air Force Base...................        $24,800,000
Virginia........................................  Defense Distribution Depot Richmond........        $98,800,000
                                                  Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek -            $45,604,000
                                                   Fort Story................................
                                                  Pentagon...................................        $28,802,000
                                                  Training Center Dam Neck...................        $12,770,000
Washington......................................  Joint Base Lewis-McChord...................        $47,700,000
Wisconsin.......................................  General Mitchell International Airport.....        $25,900,000
CONUS Classified................................  Classified Location........................        $82,200,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of 
Defense may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:


                                   Defense Agencies: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Country                                Installation or Location                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Germany.........................................  Geilenkirchen Air Base.....................        $30,479,000
Germany.........................................  Ramstein...................................        $66,800,000
Japan...........................................   Yokota Air Base...........................       $136,411,000
Worldwide Classified............................  Classified Location........................        $52,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2402. AUTHORIZED ENERGY RESILIENCE AND CONSERVATION INVESTMENT 
PROGRAM PROJECTS.
    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for energy conservation projects as specified in the funding table in 
section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may carry out energy 
conservation projects under chapter 173 of title 10, United States 
Code, for the installations or locations inside the United States, and 
in the amounts, set forth in the following table:


                                    ERCIP Projects: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                 Installation or Location                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California...................................  Mountain View.................................         $9,700,000
                                               Naval Air Weapons Station China Lake..........         $8,950,000
                                               Naval Support Activity Monterey...............        $10,540,000
 Hawaii......................................  Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam................         $4,000,000
Maryland.....................................  Naval Support Activity Bethesda...............        $13,840,000
                                               South Potomac.................................        $18,460,000
New Mexico...................................  White Sands Missile Range.....................         $5,800,000
Texas........................................  Camp Swift....................................         $4,500,000
                                               Fort Hood.....................................        $16,500,000
Virginia.....................................  National Reconnaissance Office Headquarters...            $66,000
Washington...................................  Naval Base Kitsap.............................        $23,670,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for energy conservation projects as specified in the funding table in 
section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may carry out energy 
conservation projects under chapter 173 of title 10, United States 
Code, for the installations or locations outside the United States, and 
in the amounts, set forth in the following table:


                                    ERCIP Projects: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Country                                Installation or Location                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Guam.........................................  Naval Base Guam...............................        $16,970,000
Unspecified Worldwide........................  Unspecified Worldwide Locations...............       $150,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2403. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, DEFENSE AGENCIES.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2019, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of Defense (other than the military 
departments), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2401 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.

                   TITLE XXV--INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS
  Subtitle A--North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
                                Program

   Subtitle A--North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
                                 Program

Sec. 2501. Authorized NATO construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2502. Authorization of appropriations, NATO.

             Subtitle B--Host Country In-kind Contributions

Sec. 2511. Republic of Korea funded construction projects.
SEC. 2501. AUTHORIZED NATO CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    The Secretary of Defense may make contributions for the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program as provided in 
section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, in an amount not to 
exceed the sum of the amount authorized to be appropriated for this 
purpose in section 2502 and the amount collected from the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization as a result of construction previously 
financed by the United States.
SEC. 2502. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATO.
    (a) Authorization.--Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated 
for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2019, for contributions 
by the Secretary of Defense under section 2806 of title 10, United 
States Code, for the share of the United States of the cost of projects 
for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program 
authorized by section 2501 as specified in the funding table in section 
4601.
    (b) Authority to Recognize NATO Authorization Amounts as Budgetary 
Resources for Project Execution.--When the United States is designated 
as the Host Nation for the purposes of executing a project under the 
NATO Security Investment Program (NSIP), the Department of Defense 
construction agent may recognize the NATO project authorization amounts 
as budgetary resources to incur obligations for the purposes of 
executing the NSIP project.

             Subtitle B--Host Country In-kind Contributions

SEC. 2511. REPUBLIC OF KOREA FUNDED CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.
    Pursuant to agreement with the Republic of Korea for required in-
kind contributions, the Secretary of Defense may accept military 
construction projects for the installations or locations in the 
Republic of Korea, and in the amounts, set forth in the following 
table:


                                 Republic of Korea Funded Construction Projects
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
               Component                  Installation or Location              Project                Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army...................................  Camp Carroll..............  Army Prepositioned Stock-4      $51,000,000
                                                                      Wheeled Vehicle Maintenance
                                                                      Facility....................
Army...................................  Camp Humphreys............  Unaccompanied Enlisted         $154,000,000
                                                                      Personnel Housing, P1.......
Army...................................  Camp Humphreys............  Unaccompanied Enlisted         $211,000,000
                                                                      Personnel Housing, P2.......
Army...................................  Camp Humphreys............  Satellite Communications        $32,000,000
                                                                      Facility....................
Air Force..............................  Gwangju Air Base..........  Hydrant Fuel System..........   $35,000,000
Air Force..............................  Kunsan Air Base...........  Upgrade Electrical              $14,200,000
                                                                      Distribution System.........
Air Force..............................  Kunsan Air Base...........  Dining Facility..............   $21,000,000
Air Force..............................  Suwon Air Base............  Hydrant Fuel System..........   $24,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


            TITLE XXVI--GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES

Sec. 2601. Authorized Army National Guard construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2602. Authorized Army Reserve construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2603. Authorized Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve construction 
          and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2604. Authorized Air National Guard construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2605. Authorized Air Force Reserve construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2606. Authorization of appropriations, National Guard and Reserve.
SEC. 2601. AUTHORIZED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Army National Guard locations inside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                               Army National Guard
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                          Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama.........................................  Anniston Army Depot..........................      $34,000,000
                                                  Foley........................................      $12,000,000
California......................................  Camp Roberts.................................      $12,000,000
Idaho...........................................  Orchard Training Area........................      $29,000,000
Maryland........................................  Havre de Grace...............................      $12,000,000
Massachusetts...................................  Camp Edwards.................................       $9,700,000
Minnesota.......................................  New Ulm......................................      $11,200,000
Mississippi.....................................  Camp Shelby..................................       $8,100,000
Missouri........................................  Springfield..................................      $12,000,000
Nebraska........................................  Bellevue.....................................      $29,000,000
New Hampshire...................................  Concord......................................       $5,950,000
New York........................................  Jamaica Armory...............................      $91,000,000
Pennsylvania....................................  Moon Township................................      $23,000,000
Vermont.........................................  Jericho......................................      $30,000,000
Washington......................................  Richland.....................................      $11,400,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2602. AUTHORIZED ARMY RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
PROJECTS.
    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Army Reserve locations inside the United 
States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                                  Army Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                          Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Delaware........................................  Newark Army Reserve Center...................      $21,000,000
Wisconsin.......................................  Fort McCoy...................................      $25,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2603. AUTHORIZED NAVY RESERVE AND MARINE CORPS RESERVE 
CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out the 
military construction project for the Navy Reserve and Marine Corps 
Reserve location inside the United States, and in the amount, set forth 
in the following table:


                                      Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                         Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Louisiana.......................................   New Orleans...............................        $25,260,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2604. AUTHORIZED AIR NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out 
military construction projects for the Air National Guard locations 
inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the 
following table:


                                               Air National Guard
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                         Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California......................................  Moffett Air National Guard Base............        $57,000,000
Georgia.........................................  Savannah/Hilton Head International Airport.        $24,000,000
Missouri........................................  Rosecrans Memorial Airport.................         $9,500,000
Puerto Rico.....................................  Luis Munoz-Marin International Airport.....        $50,000,000
Wisconsin.......................................  Truax Field................................        $34,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2605. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out 
military construction projects for the Air Force Reserve locations 
inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the 
following table:

                                                Air Force Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                          Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Georgia.........................................  Robins Air Force Base........................      $43,000,000
Maryland........................................  Joint Base Andrews...........................      $15,000,000
Minnesota.......................................  Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport...       $9,800,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2606. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVE.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2019, for the costs of acquisition, 
architectural and engineering services, and construction of facilities 
for the Guard and Reserve Forces, and for contributions therefor, under 
chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code (including the cost of 
acquisition of land for those facilities), as specified in the funding 
table in section 4601.

          TITLE XXVII--BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 2701. Authorization of appropriations for base realignment and 
          closure activities funded through Department of Defense base 
          closure account.
Sec. 2702. Prohibition on conducting additional base realignment and 
          closure (BRAC) round.
SEC. 2701. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR BASE REALIGNMENT AND 
CLOSURE ACTIVITIES FUNDED THROUGH DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE BASE CLOSURE 
ACCOUNT.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2019, for base realignment and closure 
activities, including real property acquisition and military 
construction projects, as authorized by the Defense Base Closure and 
Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 
U.S.C. 2687 note) and funded through the Department of Defense Base 
Closure Account established by section 2906 of such Act (as amended by 
section 2711 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2013 (division B of Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2140)), as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601.
SEC. 2702. PROHIBITION ON CONDUCTING ADDITIONAL BASE REALIGNMENT AND 
CLOSURE (BRAC) ROUND.
    Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize an additional 
Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round.

         TITLE XXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PROVISIONS

                Subtitle A--Military Construction Program

Sec. 2801. Military installation resilience plans and projects.
Sec. 2802. Improved consultation with tribal governments when proposed 
          military construction projects potentially impact Indian 
          tribes.
Sec. 2803. Increased authority for use of certain appropriations amounts 
          for restoration or replacement of damaged or destroyed 
          facilities.
Sec. 2804. Amendment of Unified Facilities Criteria to promote military 
          installation resilience, energy resilience, energy and climate 
          resiliency, and cyber resilience.
Sec. 2805. Modification to Department of Defense Form 1391 regarding 
          consideration of potential long-term adverse environmental 
          effects.
Sec. 2806. Improved flood risk disclosure for military construction.
Sec. 2807. Prioritization of projects in annual report on unfunded 
          requirements for laboratory military construction projects.
Sec. 2808. Technical corrections and improvements to defense access road 
          resilience.
Sec. 2809. Military construction projects for child development centers 
          at military installations.
Sec. 2810. Prohibition on use of funds to reduce air base resiliency or 
          demolish protected aircraft shelters in the European theater 
          without creating a similar protection from attack.
Sec. 2811. Prohibition on use of funds to close or return certain bases 
          to the host nation.

         Subtitle B--Real Property and Facilities Administration

Sec. 2821. Improved energy security for main operating bases in Europe.
Sec. 2822. Access to Department of Defense installations for 
          credentialed transportation workers.
Sec. 2823. Improved recording and maintaining of Department of Defense 
          real property data.

                      Subtitle C--Land Conveyances

Sec. 2831. Land conveyance, Hill Air Force Base, Ogden, Utah.
Sec. 2832. Release of interests retained in Camp Joseph T. Robinson, 
          Arkansas, for use of such land as a veterans cemetery.
Sec. 2833. Modification of authorized uses of certain property conveyed 
          by the United States in Los Angeles, California.
Sec. 2834. Transfer of administrative jurisdiction over certain parcels 
          of Federal land in Arlington, Virginia.

                  Subtitle D--Military Land Withdrawals

Sec. 2841. Public notice regarding upcoming periods of Secretary of the 
          Navy management of Shared Use Area of the Johnson Valley Off-
          Highway Vehicle Recreation Area.

   Subtitle E--White Sands National Park and White Sands Missile Range

Sec. 2851. White Sands Missile Range Land Enhancements.

                        Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 2861. Installation and maintenance of fire extinguishers in 
          Department of Defense facilities.
Sec. 2862. Definition of community infrastructure for purposes of 
          military base reuse studies and community planning assistance.
Sec. 2863. Temporary authority for acceptance and use of contributions 
          for certain design and construction projects mutually 
          beneficial to the Department of Defense and the Republic of 
          Korea.
Sec. 2864. Black start exercises at military installations.
Sec. 2865. Pilot program to extend service life of roads and runways 
          under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Defense.
Sec. 2866. Restrictions on rehabilitation of Over-the-Horizon 
          Backscatter Radar System receiving station, Modoc County, 
          California.
Sec. 2867. Designation of Sumpter Smith Joint National Guard Base.
Sec. 2868. Santa Ynez Band of Chumash Indians land affirmation.
Sec. 2869. Lands to be taken into trust as part of the reservation of 
          the Lytton Rancheria.
Sec. 2870. Little Shell Tribe of Chippewa Indians of Montana.
Sec. 2871. Sense of Congress on restoration of Tyndall Air Force Base.

               Subtitle A--Military Construction Program

SEC. 2801. MILITARY INSTALLATION RESILIENCE PLANS AND PROJECTS.
    (a) Inclusion of Military Installation Resilience Information in 
Certain Installation Master Plans.--
        (1) Requirement.--Section 2864 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a)(1), by inserting ``military 
        installation resilience,'' after ``master planning,'';
            (B) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections 
        (e) and (f), respectively; and
            (C) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(c) Military Installation Resilience Component.--To address 
military installation resilience under subsection (a)(1), each 
installation master plan shall discuss the following:
        ``(1) Risks and threats to military installation resilience 
    that exist at the time of the development of the plan and that are 
    projected for the future, including from extreme weather events, 
    mean sea level fluctuation, wildfires, flooding, and other changes 
    in environmental conditions.
        ``(2) Assets or infrastructure located on the military 
    installation vulnerable to the risks and threats described in 
    paragraph (1), with a special emphasis on assets or infrastructure 
    critical to the mission of the installation and the mission of 
    members of the armed forces.
        ``(3) Lessons learned from the impacts of extreme weather 
    events, including changes made to the military installation to 
    address such impacts, since the prior master plan developed under 
    this section.
        ``(4) Ongoing or planned infrastructure projects or other 
    measures, as of the time of the development of the plan, to 
    mitigate the impacts of the risks and threats described in 
    paragraph (1).
        ``(5) Community infrastructure and resources located outside 
    the installation (such as medical facilities, transportation 
    systems, and energy infrastructure) that are--
            ``(A) necessary to maintain mission capability or that 
        impact the resilience of the military installation; and
            ``(B) vulnerable to the risks and threats described in 
        paragraph (1).
        ``(6) Agreements in effect or planned, as of the time of the 
    development of the plan, with public or private entities for the 
    purpose of maintaining or enhancing military installation 
    resilience or resilience of the community infrastructure and 
    resources described in paragraph (5).
        ``(7) Projections from recognized governmental and scientific 
    entities such as the Census Bureau, the National Academies of 
    Sciences, the United States Geological Survey, and the United 
    States Global Change Research Office (or any similar successor 
    entities) with respect to future risks and threats (including the 
    risks and threats described in paragraph (1)) to the resilience of 
    any project considered in the installation master plan during the 
    50-year lifespan of the installation.''.
        (2) Report on master plans.--Section 2864 of title 10, United 
    States Code, is amended by inserting after subsection (c), as added 
    by subsection (a), the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Report.--Not later than March 1 of each year, the Secretary 
of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report listing all master plans completed pursuant to this section in 
the prior calendar year.''.
    (b) Authority to Carry Out Military Installation Resilience 
Projects.--
        (1) In general.--Subchapter I of chapter 169 of title 10, 
    United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following 
    new section:
``Sec. 2815. Military installation resilience projects
    ``(a) Projects Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out 
military construction projects for military installation resilience, in 
accordance with section 2802 of this title.
    ``(b) Congressional Notification.--(1) When a decision is made to 
carry out a project under this section, the Secretary of Defense shall 
notify the congressional defense committees of that decision.
    ``(2) The Secretary of Defense shall include in each notification 
submitted under paragraph (1) the rationale for how the project would--
        ``(A) enhance military installation resilience;
        ``(B) enhance mission assurance;
        ``(C) support mission critical functions; and
        ``(D) address known vulnerabilities.
    ``(c) Timing of Projects.--A project may be carried out under this 
section only after the end of the 14-day period beginning on the date 
that notification with respect to that project under subsection (b) is 
received by the congressional defense committees in an electronic 
medium pursuant to section 480 of this title.
    ``(d) Annual Report.--Not later than 90 days after the end of each 
fiscal year until December 31, 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the status 
of the planned and active projects carried out under this section 
(including completed projects), and shall include in the report with 
respect to each such project the following information:
        ``(1) The title, location, a brief description of the scope of 
    work, the original project cost estimate, and the current working 
    cost estimate.
        ``(2) The information provided under subsection (b)(2).
        ``(3) Such other information as the Secretary considers 
    appropriate.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 169 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
    relating to section 2814 the following new item:

``2815. Military installation resilience projects.''.
SEC. 2802. IMPROVED CONSULTATION WITH TRIBAL GOVERNMENTS WHEN PROPOSED 
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS POTENTIALLY IMPACT INDIAN TRIBES.
    Section 2802 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f)(1) In addition to any other applicable consultation 
requirement pursuant to law or Department of Defense policy, if a 
proposed military construction project is likely to significantly 
impact tribal lands, known sacred sites, or tribal treaty rights, the 
Secretary concerned shall initiate consultation with the tribal 
government of each impacted Indian tribe--
        ``(A) to determine the nature and extent of such impact;
        ``(B) to determine whether such impact can be avoided or 
    mitigated in the design and implementation of the project; and
        ``(C) if such impact cannot be avoided, to develop feasible 
    measures consistent with applicable law to mitigate the impact and 
    estimate the cost of the mitigation measures.
    ``(2) As part of the Department of Defense Form 1391 submitted to 
the appropriate committees of Congress for a military construction 
project covered by paragraph (1), the Secretary concerned, to the 
extent possible at the time of such submission, shall include a 
description of the current status of the consultation conducted under 
such paragraph and specifically address each of the items specified in 
subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of such paragraph.
    ``(3) The requirement under paragraph (1) does not affect the 
obligation of the Secretary concerned to comply with any other 
applicable consultation requirement pursuant to law or Department of 
Defense policy.
    ``(4) In this subsection:
        ``(A) The term `Indian tribe' has the meaning given that term 
    in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education 
    Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).
        ``(B) The term `tribal government' means the recognized 
    governing body of an Indian tribe.
        ``(C) The term `sacred site' has the meaning given that term in 
    Executive Order No. 13007, as in effect on the date of the 
    enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
    2020.''.
SEC. 2803. INCREASED AUTHORITY FOR USE OF CERTAIN APPROPRIATIONS 
AMOUNTS FOR RESTORATION OR REPLACEMENT OF DAMAGED OR DESTROYED 
FACILITIES.
    Section 2854(c)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``$50,000,000'' and inserting ``$100,000,000''.
SEC. 2804. AMENDMENT OF UNIFIED FACILITIES CRITERIA TO PROMOTE MILITARY 
INSTALLATION RESILIENCE, ENERGY RESILIENCE, ENERGY AND CLIMATE 
RESILIENCY, AND CYBER RESILIENCE.
    (a) Amendment Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than September 1, 2020, the 
    Secretary of Defense shall amend the Unified Facility Criteria 
    relating to military construction planning and design, to ensure 
    that building practices and standards of the Department of Defense 
    promote military installation resilience, energy resilience, energy 
    and climate resiliency, and cyber resilience.
        (2) Considerations and consultation.--In preparing amendments 
    pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense--
            (A) shall take into account historical data, current 
        conditions, and sea level rise projections; and
            (B) may consult with the heads of other Federal departments 
        and agencies with expertise regarding military installation 
        resilience, energy resilience, energy and climate resiliency, 
        and cyber resilience.
    (b) Conditional Availability of Funds.--Not more than 25 percent of 
the funds authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 for 
Department of Defense planning and design accounts relating to military 
construction projects may be obligated until the date on which the 
Secretary of Defense submits to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate a certification that the 
Secretary--
        (1) has initiated the amendment process required by subsection 
    (a)(1); and
        (2) intends to complete such process by September 1, 2020.
    (c) Update of Unified Facilities Criteria to Include Changing 
Environmental Condition Projections.--Section 2805(c) of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division B of 
Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2262; 10 U.S.C. 2864 note) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``Not later than'' and inserting the following:
        ``(1) Fiscal year 2019.--Not later than'';
        (2) in paragraph (1), as designated by paragraph (1), by 
    striking ``United Facilities Criteria (UFC) 2-100-01 and UFC 2-100-
    02'' and inserting ``Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 1-200-01 and 
    UFC 1-200-02''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(2) Fiscal year 2020.--
            ``(A) Amendments required.--Not later than 30 days after 
        the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 2020, the Secretary of Defense shall amend 
        the Unified Facilities Criteria as follows:
                ``(i) To require that installations of the Department 
            of Defense assess the risks from extreme weather and 
            related effects, and develop plans to address such risks.
                ``(ii) To require in the development of such Criteria 
            the use of--

                    ``(I) land use change projections through the use 
                of land use and land cover modeling by the United 
                States Geological Survey; and
                    ``(II) weather projections--

                        ``(aa) from the United States Global Change 
                    Research Program, including in the National Climate 
                    Assessment; or
                        ``(bb) from the National Oceanic and 
                    Atmospheric Administration, if such projections are 
                    more up-to-date than projections under item (aa).
                ``(iii) To require the Secretary of Defense to provide 
            guidance to project designers and master planners on how to 
            use weather projections.
                ``(iv) To require the use throughout the Department of 
            the Naval Facilities Engineering Command Climate Change 
            Installation Adaptation and Resilience planning handbook, 
            as amended (or similar publication of the Army Corps of 
            Engineers).
            ``(B) Notification.--If the Secretary of Defense determines 
        that a projection other than a projection described in 
        subparagraph (A)(ii) is more appropriate for use in amending 
        the Unified Facilities Criteria, the Secretary shall notify the 
        congressional defense committees of such determination, which 
        shall include the rationale underlying such determination and a 
        description of such other projection.''.
    (d) Implementation of Unified Facilities Criteria Amendments.--
        (1) Implementation.--Any Department of Defense Form 1391 
    submitted to Congress after September 1, 2020 shall comply with the 
    Unified Facility Criteria, as amended pursuant to this section.
        (2) Certification.--Not later than March 1, 2021, the Secretary 
    of Defense shall certify to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
    House of Representatives and the Senate the completion and full 
    incorporation into military construction planning and design--
            (A) amendments made pursuant to subsection (a); and
            (B) amendments made pursuant to section 2805(c) of the 
        Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 
        (division B of Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2262; 10 U.S.C. 
        2864 note), as amended by subsection (c).
    (e) Annual Review.--Beginning with fiscal year 2022, and annually 
thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall conduct a review comparing 
the Unified Facility Criteria and industry best practices, for the 
purpose of ensuring that military construction building practices and 
standards of the Department of Defense relating to military 
installation resilience, energy resilience, energy and climate 
resiliency, and cyber resilience remain up-to-date.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The terms ``energy resilience'' and ``military installation 
    resilience'' have the meanings given those terms in section 101(e) 
    of title 10, United States Code.
        (2) The term ``energy and climate resiliency'' has the meaning 
    given that term in section 2864 of title 10, United States Code.
SEC. 2805. MODIFICATION TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FORM 1391 REGARDING 
CONSIDERATION OF POTENTIAL LONG-TERM ADVERSE ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS.
    (a) Modification.--
        (1) Certification requirement.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
    modify Department of Defense Form 1391 to require, with respect to 
    any proposed major or minor military construction project requiring 
    congressional notification or approval, the inclusion of a 
    certification by the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of the 
    military department concerned that the proposed military 
    construction project takes into consideration--
            (A) the potential adverse consequences of long-term changes 
        in environmental conditions, such as increasingly frequent 
        extreme weather events, that could affect the military 
        installation resilience of the installation for which the 
        military construction project is proposed; and
            (B) building requirements in effect for the locality in 
        which the military construction project is proposed and 
        industry best practices that are developed to withstand extreme 
        weather events and other consequences of changes in 
        environmental conditions.
        (2) Elements of certification.--As part of the certification 
    required by paragraph (1) for a proposed military construction 
    project, the Secretary concerned shall identify the potential 
    changes in environmental conditions, such as increasingly frequent 
    extreme weather events, considered and addressed under 
    subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1).
    (b) Relation to Recent Modification Requirement.--The modification 
of Department of Defense Form 1391 required by subsection (a) is in 
addition to, and expands upon, the modification of Department of 
Defense Form 1391 with respect to flood risk disclosure for military 
construction required by section 2805(a) of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division B of Public Law 115-
232; 132 Stat. 2262; 10 U.S.C. 2802 note).
    (c) Military Installation Resilience Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``military installation resilience'' has the meaning given that 
term in section 101(e)(8) of title 10, United States Code.
SEC. 2806. IMPROVED FLOOD RISK DISCLOSURE FOR MILITARY CONSTRUCTION.
    (a) When Disclosure Required.--Section 2805(a)(1) of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division B of 
Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2262; 10 U.S.C. 2802 note) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (A), by inserting after ``hazard data'' the 
    following: ``, or will be impacted by projected current and future 
    mean sea level fluctuations over the lifetime of the project''; and
        (2) in subparagraph (B), by inserting after ``floodplain'' the 
    following: ``or will be impacted by projected current and future 
    mean sea level fluctuations over the lifetime of the project''.
    (b) Reporting Requirements.--Section 2805(a)(3) of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division B of 
Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2262; 10 U.S.C. 2802 note) is amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding the subparagraphs, by inserting 
    after ``floodplain'' the following: ``or are to be impacted by 
    projected current and future mean sea level fluctuations over the 
    lifetime of the project''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(D) A description of how the proposed project has taken 
        into account projected current and future mean sea level 
        fluctuations over the lifetime of the project.''.
    (c) Mitigation Plan Assumptions.--Section 2805(a)(4) of the 
Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division 
B of Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2262; 10 U.S.C. 2802 note) is 
amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding the subparagraphs--
            (A) by inserting after ``floodplain'' the following: ``or 
        that will be impacted by projected current and future mean sea 
        level fluctuations over the lifetime of the project''; and
            (B) by striking ``an additional'';
        (2) in subparagraph (A)--
            (A) by inserting ``an additional'' before ``2 feet''; and
            (B) by striking ``and'' at the end of the subparagraph;
        (3) in subparagraph (B)--
            (A) by inserting ``an additional'' before ``3 feet''; and
            (B) by striking the period at the end of the subparagraph 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
        (4) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(C) any additional flooding that will result from 
        projected current and future mean sea level fluctuations over 
        the lifetime of the project.''.
SEC. 2807. PRIORITIZATION OF PROJECTS IN ANNUAL REPORT ON UNFUNDED 
REQUIREMENTS FOR LABORATORY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.
    Section 2806 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 10 U.S.C. 222a note) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``Assistant Secretary of Defense for Energy, 
    Installations, and Environment'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment'';
        (2) by striking ``reporting'' and inserting ``report''; and
        (3) by inserting ``in prioritized order, with specific accounts 
    and program elements identified,'' after ``evaluation 
    facilities,''.
SEC. 2808. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS TO DEFENSE ACCESS 
ROAD RESILIENCE.
    Section 210 of title 23, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``(a)(1) The Secretary'' and 
    all that follows through the end of paragraph (1) and inserting the 
    following:
    ``(a) Authorization.--
        ``(1) In general.--When defense access roads are certified to 
    the Secretary as important to the national defense by the Secretary 
    of Defense or such other official as the President may designate, 
    the Secretary is authorized, out of the funds appropriated for 
    defense access roads, to provide for--
            ``(A) the construction and maintenance of defense access 
        roads (including bridges, tubes, tunnels, and culverts or other 
        hydraulic appurtenances on those roads) to--
                ``(i) military reservations;
                ``(ii) defense industry sites;
                ``(iii) air or sea ports that are necessary for or are 
            planned to be used for the deployment or sustainment of 
            members of the Armed Forces, equipment, or supplies; or
                ``(iv) sources of raw materials;
            ``(B) the reconstruction or enhancement of, or improvements 
        to, those roads to ensure the continued effective use of the 
        roads, regardless of current or projected increases in mean 
        tides, recurrent flooding, or other weather-related conditions 
        or natural disasters; and
            ``(C) replacing existing highways and highway connections 
        that are shut off from general public use by necessary 
        closures, closures due to mean sea level fluctuation and 
        flooding, or restrictions at--
                ``(i) military reservations;
                ``(ii) air or sea ports that are necessary for or are 
            planned to be used for the deployment or sustainment of 
            members of the Armed Forces, equipment, or supplies; or
                ``(iii) defense industry sites.'';
        (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``the construction and 
    maintenance of'' and inserting ``construction, reconstruction, 
    resurfacing, restoration, rehabilitation, and preservation of, or 
    enhancements to,'';
        (3) in subsection (c)--
            (A) by striking ``him'' and inserting ``the Secretary'';
            (B) by striking ``construction, maintenance, and repair 
        work'' and inserting ``activities for construction, 
        maintenance, reconstruction, enhancement, improvement, and 
        repair'';
            (C) by striking ``therein'' and inserting ``in those 
        areas''; and
            (D) by striking ``condition for such training purposes and 
        for repairing the damage caused to such highways by the 
        operations of men and equipment in such training.'' and 
        inserting the following: ``condition for--
        ``(1) that training; and
        ``(2) repairing the damage to those highways caused by--
            ``(A) weather-related events, increases in mean high tide 
        levels, recurrent flooding, or natural disasters; or
            ``(B) the operations of men and equipment in such 
        training.'';
        (4) in subsection (g)--
            (A) by striking ``he'' and inserting ``the Secretary'';
            (B) by striking ``construction which has been'' and 
        inserting ``construction and other activities''; and
            (C) by striking ``upon his demand'' and inserting ``upon 
        demand by the Secretary''; and
        (5) by striking subsection (i) and inserting the following:
    ``(i) Repair of Certain Damages and Infrastructure.--The funds 
appropriated to carry out this section may be used to pay the cost of 
repairing damage caused, or any infrastructure to mitigate a risk 
posed, to a defense access road by recurrent or projected recurrent 
flooding, sea level fluctuation, a natural disaster, or any other 
current or projected change in applicable environmental conditions, if 
the Secretary determines that continued access to a military 
installation, defense industry site, air or sea port necessary for or 
planned to be used for the deployment or sustainment of members of the 
Armed Forces, equipment, or supplies, or to a source of raw materials, 
has been or is projected to be impacted by those events or 
conditions.''.
SEC. 2809. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS FOR CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTERS 
AT MILITARY INSTALLATIONS.
    (a) Authorization of Additional Projects.--In addition to any other 
military construction projects authorized under this Act, the Secretary 
of the military department concerned may carry out military 
construction projects for child development centers at military 
installations, as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Requiring Report as Condition of Authorization.--
        (1) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary concerned shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report that describes the 
    location, title, and cost, together with a Department of Defense 
    Form 1391, for each project the Secretary concerned proposes to 
    carry out under this section.
        (2) Timing of availability of funds.--No funds may be obligated 
    or expended for a project under this section--
            (A) unless the project is included in the report submitted 
        under paragraph (1); and
            (B) until the expiration of the 30-day period beginning on 
        the date on which the Secretary concerned submits the report 
        under paragraph (1).
    (c) Expiration of Authorization.--Section 2002 shall apply with 
respect to the authorization of a military construction project under 
this section in the same manner as such section applies to the 
authorization of a project contained in titles XXI through XXX.
SEC. 2810. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO REDUCE AIR BASE RESILIENCY OR 
DEMOLISH PROTECTED AIRCRAFT SHELTERS IN THE EUROPEAN THEATER WITHOUT 
CREATING A SIMILAR PROTECTION FROM ATTACK.
    No funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 
2020 for the Department of Defense may be obligated or expended to 
implement any activity that reduces air base resiliency or demolishes 
protected aircraft shelters in the European theater, and the Department 
may not otherwise implement any such activity, without creating a 
similar protection from attack in the European theater until such time 
as the Secretary of Defense certifies to the congressional defense 
committees that protected aircraft shelters are not required in the 
European theater.
SEC. 2811. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO CLOSE OR RETURN CERTAIN BASES 
TO THE HOST NATION.
    No funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 
2020 for the Department of Defense may be obligated or expended to 
implement any activity that closes or returns to the host nation any 
existing base under the European Consolidation Initiative, and the 
Department shall not implement any such activity in fiscal year 2020, 
until the Secretary of Defense certifies that there is no longer a need 
for a rotational military presence in the European theater.

        Subtitle B--Real Property and Facilities Administration

SEC. 2821. IMPROVED ENERGY SECURITY FOR MAIN OPERATING BASES IN EUROPE.
    (a) Prohibition on Use of Certain Energy Source.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall ensure that each contract for the acquisition of 
furnished energy for a covered military installation in Europe does not 
use any energy sourced from inside the Russian Federation as a means of 
generating the furnished energy for the covered military installation.
    (b) Waiver for National Security Interests.--
        (1) Waiver authority; certification.--The Secretary of Defense 
    may waive application of subsection (a) to a specific contract for 
    the acquisition of furnished energy for a covered military 
    installation if the Secretary certifies to the congressional 
    defense committees that--
            (A) the waiver of such subsection is necessary to ensure an 
        adequate supply of furnished energy for the covered military 
        installation; and
            (B) the Secretary has balanced these national security 
        requirements against the potential risk associated with 
        reliance upon the Russian Federation for furnished energy.
        (2) Submission of waiver notice.--Not later than 14 days before 
    the execution of any energy contract for which a waiver is granted 
    under paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees notice of the waiver. The waiver 
    notice shall include the following:
            (A) The rationale for the waiver, including the basis for 
        the certifications required by subparagraphs (A) and (B) of 
        paragraph (1).
            (B) An assessment of how the waiver may impact the European 
        energy resiliency strategy.
            (C) An explanation of the measures the Department of 
        Defense is taking to mitigate the risk of using Russian 
        Federation furnished energy.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``covered military installation'' means a military 
    installation in Europe identified by the Department of Defense as a 
    main operating base.
        (2) The term ``furnished energy'' means energy furnished to a 
    covered military installation in any form and for any purpose, 
    including heating, cooling, and electricity.
    (d) Conforming Repeal.--Section 2811 of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division B of Public Law 115-
232; 132 Stat. 2266) is repealed.
SEC. 2822. ACCESS TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INSTALLATIONS FOR 
CREDENTIALED TRANSPORTATION WORKERS.
    Section 1050(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 10 U.S.C. 113 note) is amended to 
read as follows:
    ``(a) Access to Installations for Credentialed Transportation 
Workers.--The Secretary of Defense, to the extent practicable, shall 
ensure that the Transportation Worker Identification Credential is 
accepted as a valid credential for unescorted access to Department of 
Defense installations by transportation workers.''.
SEC. 2823. IMPROVED RECORDING AND MAINTAINING OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
REAL PROPERTY DATA.
    (a) Initial Report.--Not later than 150 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Undersecretary of Defense for Acquisition 
and Sustainment shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report that evaluates service-level best practices for recording and 
maintaining real property data.
    (b) Issuance of Guidance.--Not later than 300 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Undersecretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment shall issue service-wide guidance on the 
recording and collection of real property data based on the best 
practices described in the report.

                      Subtitle C--Land Conveyances

SEC. 2831. LAND CONVEYANCE, HILL AIR FORCE BASE, OGDEN, UTAH.
    (a) Conveyance Required.--The Secretary of the Air Force may 
convey, for no monetary consideration, to the State of Utah or a 
designee of the State of Utah (in this section referred to as the 
``State'') all right, title, and interest of the United States in and 
to a parcel of real property, including improvements thereon, 
consisting of approximately 35 acres located at Hill Air Force Base 
commonly known as the ``Defense Nontactical Generator and Rail Center'' 
and such real property adjacent to the Center as the parties consider 
to be appropriate, for the purpose of permitting the State to construct 
a new interchange for Interstate 15.
    (b) Condition Precedent.--The conveyance authorized by subsection 
(a) shall be contingent upon the relocation of the Defense Nontactical 
Generator and Rail Center.
    (c) Termination and Reentry.--If the State does not meet the 
conditions required under subsection (d) by the date that is five years 
after the date of the conveyance authorized by subsection (a), or such 
later date as the Secretary of the Air Force and the State may agree is 
reasonably necessary due to unexpected circumstances, the Secretary of 
the Air Force may terminate such conveyance and reenter the property.
    (d) Consideration and Conditions of Conveyance.--In consideration 
of and as a condition to the conveyance authorized by subsection (a), 
the State shall agree to the following:
        (1) Not later than two years after the conveyance, the State 
    shall, at no cost to the United States Government--
            (A) demolish all improvements and associated infrastructure 
        existing on the property; and
            (B) conduct environmental cleanup and remediation of the 
        property, as required by law and approved by the Utah 
        Department of Environmental Quality, for the planned 
        redevelopment and use of the property.
        (2) Not later than three years after the completion of the 
    cleanup and remediation under paragraph (1)(B), the State, at no 
    cost to the United States Government, shall construct on Hill Air 
    Force Base a new gate for vehicular and pedestrian traffic in and 
    out of Hill Air Force Base in compliance with all applicable 
    construction and security requirements and such other requirements 
    as the Secretary of the Air Force may consider necessary.
        (3) That the State shall coordinate the demolition, cleanup, 
    remediation, design, redevelopment, and construction activities 
    performed pursuant to the conveyance under subsection (a) with the 
    Secretary of the Air Force, the Utah Department of Transportation, 
    and the Utah Department of Environmental Quality.
    (e) Environmental Obligations.--The State shall not have any 
obligation with respect to cleanup and remediation of an environmental 
condition on the property to be conveyed under subsection (a) unless 
the condition was in existence and known before the date of the 
conveyance or the State exacerbates the condition which then requires 
further remediation.
    (f) Payment of Costs of Conveyance.--
        (1) Payment required.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall 
    require the State to cover costs to be incurred by the Secretary, 
    or to reimburse the Secretary for such costs incurred, to carry out 
    the conveyance under subsection (a), including survey costs, costs 
    for environmental documentation, and other administrative costs 
    related to the conveyance. If amounts are collected from the State 
    in advance of the Secretary incurring actual costs, and the amount 
    collected exceeds the costs actually incurred by the Secretary to 
    carry out the conveyance, the Secretary shall refund the excess 
    amount to the State.
        (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received as 
    reimbursement under paragraph (1) shall be credited to the fund or 
    account that was used to cover the costs incurred by the Secretary 
    in carrying out the conveyance under subsection (a) or to an 
    appropriate fund or account currently available to the Secretary 
    for the purposes for which the costs were paid. Amounts so credited 
    shall be merged with amounts in such fund or account and shall be 
    available for the same purposes, and subject to the same conditions 
    and limitations, as amounts in such fund or account.
    (g) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the property to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall 
be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary of the Air 
Force and the State.
    (h) Savings Provision.--Nothing in this section shall be construed 
to affect or limit the application of, or any obligation to comply 
with, any environmental law, including the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et 
seq.) and the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.).
SEC. 2832. RELEASE OF INTERESTS RETAINED IN CAMP JOSEPH T. ROBINSON, 
ARKANSAS, FOR USE OF SUCH LAND AS A VETERANS CEMETERY.
    (a) Release of Retained Interests.--
        (1) In general.--With respect to a parcel of land at Camp 
    Joseph T. Robinson, Arkansas, consisting of approximately 141.52 
    acres that lies in a part of section 35, township 3 north, range 12 
    west, Pulaski County, Arkansas, and comprising a portion of the 
    property conveyed by the United States to the State of Arkansas for 
    training of the National Guard and for other military purposes 
    pursuant to ``An Act authorizing the transfer of part of Camp 
    Joseph T. Robinson to the State of Arkansas'', approved June 30, 
    1950 (64 Stat. 311, chapter 429), the Secretary of the Army may 
    release the terms and conditions imposed, and reversionary 
    interests retained, by the United States under section 2 of such 
    Act, and the right to reenter and use the property retained by the 
    United States under section 3 of such Act.
        (2) Impact on other rights or interests.--The release of terms 
    and conditions and retained interests under paragraph (1) with 
    respect to the parcel described in such paragraph shall not be 
    construed to alter the rights or interests retained by the United 
    States with respect to the remainder of the real property conveyed 
    to the State of Arkansas under the Act described in such paragraph.
    (b) Instrument of Release and Description of Property.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Army may execute and file 
    in the appropriate office a deed of release, amended deed, or other 
    appropriate instrument reflecting the release of terms and 
    conditions and retained interests under subsection (a).
        (2) Legal description.--The exact acreage and legal description 
    of the property described in subsection (a) shall be determined by 
    a survey satisfactory to the Secretary of the Army.
    (c) Conditions on Release and Reversionary Interest.--
        (1) Expansion of veterans cemetery and reversionary interest.--
            (A) Expansion of veterans cemetery.--The State of Arkansas 
        may use the parcel of land described in subsection (a)(1) only 
        for the expansion of the Arkansas State Veterans Cemetery.
            (B) Reversionary interest.--If the Secretary of the Army 
        determines at any time that the parcel of land described in 
        subsection (a)(1) is not being used in accordance with the 
        purpose specified in subparagraph (A), all right, title, and 
        interest in and to the land, including any improvements 
        thereto, shall, at the option of the Secretary, revert to and 
        become the property of the United States, and the United States 
        shall have the right of immediate entry onto such parcel.
        (2) Additional terms and conditions.--The Secretary of the Army 
    may require in the instrument of release such additional terms and 
    conditions in connection with the release of terms and conditions 
    and retained interests under subsection (a) as the Secretary 
    considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United 
    States.
    (d) Payment of Administrative Costs.--
        (1) Payment required.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary of the Army may require the 
        State of Arkansas to cover costs to be incurred by the 
        Secretary, or to reimburse the Secretary for costs incurred by 
        the Secretary, to carry out the release of terms and conditions 
        and retained interests under subsection (a), including survey 
        costs, costs related to environmental documentation, and other 
        administrative costs related to the release.
            (B) Refund of amounts.--If amounts paid to the Secretary by 
        the State of Arkansas in advance under subparagraph (A) exceed 
        the costs actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out the 
        release, the Secretary shall refund the excess amount to the 
        State.
        (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received under 
    paragraph (1) as reimbursement for costs incurred by the Secretary 
    to carry out the release of terms and conditions and retained 
    interests under subsection (a) shall be credited to the fund or 
    account that was used to cover the costs incurred by the Secretary 
    in carrying out the release. Amounts so credited shall be merged 
    with amounts in such fund or account and shall be available for the 
    same purposes, and subject to the same conditions and limitations, 
    as amounts in such fund or account.
SEC. 2833. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORIZED USES OF CERTAIN PROPERTY CONVEYED 
BY THE UNITED STATES IN LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA.
    (a) In General.--Section 2 of Public Law 85-236 (71 Stat. 517) is 
amended in the first sentence by inserting after ``for other military 
purposes'' the following: ``and for purposes of meeting the needs of 
the homeless (as that term is defined in section 103 of the McKinney-
Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11302))''.
    (b) Modification of Use.--
        (1) Application.--The State of California shall submit to the 
    Administrator of General Services an application for use of the 
    property conveyed by section 2 of Public Law 85-236 for purposes of 
    meeting the needs of the homeless in accordance with the amendment 
    made by subsection (a).
        (2) Review of application.--Not later than 60 days after the 
    date of receipt of an application pursuant to paragraph (1), the 
    Administrator and the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall 
    jointly determine whether the use of the property described in the 
    application is a use for purposes of meeting the needs of the 
    homeless.
        (3) Compatibility with military purposes.--Before executing any 
    instrument of modification of the deed of conveyance, the 
    Administrator and the Secretary shall request a review by the Chief 
    of the National Guard Bureau, in consultation with the Secretary of 
    the Army, to ensure that any modification of the use of the 
    property described in the application is compatible with the 
    current and anticipated future use of the property for training 
    members of the National Guard and other military purposes.
        (4) Modification of instrument of conveyance.--If the Chief of 
    the National Guard Bureau determines pursuant to the review under 
    paragraph (3) that the modification of the use of the property 
    described in the application is compatible with the use of the 
    property for training members of the National Guard and other 
    military purposes, the Administrator shall execute and record in 
    the appropriate office an instrument of modification of the deed of 
    conveyance executed pursuant to Public Law 85-236 in order to 
    authorize such use of the property described in the application. 
    The instrument shall be filed within 60 days of such determination 
    and include such additional terms and conditions as the 
    Administrator considers appropriate to protect the interests of the 
    United States.
SEC. 2834. TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION OVER CERTAIN PARCELS 
OF FEDERAL LAND IN ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA.
    (a) Transfer to the Secretary of the Army.--
        (1) Transfer.--Administrative jurisdiction over the parcel of 
    Federal land described in paragraph (2) is transferred from the 
    Secretary of the Interior to the Secretary of the Army.
        (2) Description of land.--The parcel of Federal land referred 
    to in paragraph (1) is the approximately 16.09-acre parcel of land 
    in Arlington, Virginia, as depicted on the map entitled ``Arlington 
    National Cemetery, Memorial Ave-NPS Parcel'' and dated February 11, 
    2019.
    (b) Transfer to the Secretary of the Interior.--
        (1) Transfer.--Administrative jurisdiction over the parcel of 
    Federal land described in paragraph (2) is transferred from the 
    Secretary of the Army to the Secretary of the Interior.
        (2) Description of land.--The parcel of Federal land referred 
    to in paragraph (1) is the approximately 1.04-acre parcel of land 
    in Arlington, Virginia, as depicted on the map entitled ``Arlington 
    National Cemetery-Chaffee NPS Land Swap'' and dated October 31, 
    2018.
    (c) Land Surveys.--The exact acreage and legal description of a 
parcel of Federal land described in subsection (a)(2) or (b)(2) shall 
be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary of the Army and 
the Secretary of the Interior.
    (d) Authority to Correct Errors.--The Secretary of the Army and the 
Secretary of the Interior may correct any clerical or typographical 
error in a map described in subsection (a)(2) or (b)(2).
    (e) Terms and Conditions.--
        (1) No reimbursement or consideration.--A transfer by 
    subsection (a)(1) or (b)(1) shall be without reimbursement or 
    consideration.
        (2) Continued recreational access.--The use of a bicycle trail 
    or recreational access within a parcel of Federal land described in 
    subsection (a)(2) or (b)(2) in which the use or access is 
    authorized before the date of the enactment of this Act shall be 
    allowed to continue after the transfer of the applicable parcel of 
    Federal land by subsection (a)(1) or (b)(1).
        (3) Management of parcel transferred to secretary of the 
    army.--
            (A) In general.--The parcel of Federal land transferred to 
        the Secretary of the Army by subsection (a)(1) shall be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Army--
                (i) as part of Arlington National Cemetery; and
                (ii) in accordance with applicable law, including--

                    (I) regulations; and
                    (II) section 2409 of title 38, United States Code.

            (B) Memorandum of understanding on operation of maintenance 
        of memorial.--
                (i) In general.--The Secretary of the Army shall seek 
            to enter into a memorandum of understanding with the Women 
            in Military Service for America Memorial Foundation, Inc., 
            to define roles and responsibilities for the shared 
            responsibility and resources for operation and maintenance 
            of the Women in Military Service for America Memorial and 
            the surrounding grounds.
                (ii) Allocation of amounts.--The Secretary of the Army 
            may, pursuant to the memorandum of understanding described 
            in clause (i), allocate amounts to the foundation described 
            in that clause to support operation and maintenance of the 
            memorial described in that clause.
        (4) Management of parcel transferred to secretary of the 
    interior.--The parcel of Federal land transferred to the Secretary 
    of the Interior by subsection (b)(1) shall be--
            (A) included within the boundary of Arlington House, The 
        Robert E. Lee Memorial; and
            (B) administered by the Secretary of the Interior--
                (i) as part of the memorial referred to in subparagraph 
            (A); and
                (ii) in accordance with applicable law (including 
            regulations).

                 Subtitle D--Military Land Withdrawals

SEC. 2841. PUBLIC NOTICE REGARDING UPCOMING PERIODS OF SECRETARY OF THE 
NAVY MANAGEMENT OF SHARED USE AREA OF THE JOHNSON VALLEY OFF-HIGHWAY 
VEHICLE RECREATION AREA.
    (a) Public Notice Required.--Section 2942(b)(2) of the Military 
Land Withdrawals Act of 2013 (title XXIX of Public Law 113-66; 127 
Stat. 1036) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subparagraph:
            ``(D) Public notice.--Not later than one year before the 
        date on which a 30-day period of Secretary of the Navy 
        management of the Shared Use Area commences, the Secretary of 
        the Navy, acting through the Resource Management Group 
        established pursuant to section 2944, shall notify the public 
        of such date of commencement and the intention of the Armed 
        Forces to use the Shared Use Area for military training 
        purposes. The Secretary of the Navy, upon notice to the 
        Secretary of the Interior, may waive such public notice in the 
        event of an emergent military training requirement.''.
    (b) Application of Amendment.--Subparagraph (D) of section 
2942(b)(2) of the Military Land Withdrawals Act of 2013 (title XXIX of 
Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 1036), as added by subsection (a), shall 
apply to periods of Secretary of the Navy management of the Shared Use 
Area of the Johnson Valley Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area under 
such section that commence on or after January 1, 2021.

  Subtitle E--White Sands National Park and White Sands Missile Range

SEC. 2851. WHITE SANDS MISSILE RANGE LAND ENHANCEMENTS.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``White Sands 
    National Park Proposed Boundary Revision & Transfer of Lands 
    Between National Park Service & Department of the Army'', numbered 
    142/136,271, and dated February 14, 2017.
        (2) Military munitions.--The term ``military munitions'' has 
    the meaning given the term in section 101(e) of title 10, United 
    States Code.
        (3) Missile range.--The term ``missile range'' means the White 
    Sands Missile Range, New Mexico, administered by the Secretary of 
    the Army.
        (4) Monument.--The term ``Monument'' means the White Sands 
    National Monument, New Mexico, established by Presidential 
    Proclamation No. 2025 (54 U.S.C. 320301 note), dated January 18, 
    1933, and administered by the Secretary of the Interior.
        (5) Munitions debris.--The term ``munitions debris'' has the 
    meaning given the term in volume 8 of the Department of Defense 
    Manual Number 6055.09-M entitled ``DoD Ammunitions and Explosives 
    Safety Standards'' and dated February 29, 2008 (as in effect on the 
    date of the enactment of this Act).
        (6) Park.--The term ``Park'' means the White Sands National 
    Park established by subsection (b)(1).
        (7) Public land order.--The term ``Public Land Order'' means 
    Public Land Order 833, dated May 21, 1952 (17 Fed. Reg. 4822).
        (8) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of New Mexico.
    (b) White Sands National Park.--
        (1) Establishment.--To protect, preserve, and restore its 
    scenic, scientific, educational, natural, geological, historical, 
    cultural, archaeological, paleontological, hydrological, fish, 
    wildlife, and recreational values and to enhance visitor 
    experiences, there is established in the State the White Sands 
    National Park as a unit of the National Park System.
        (2) Abolishment of white sands national monument.--
            (A) Abolishment.--Due to the establishment of the Park, the 
        Monument is abolished.
            (B) Incorporation.--The land and interests in land that 
        comprise the Monument are incorporated in, and shall be 
        considered to be part of, the Park.
        (3) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
    document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
    ``White Sands National Monument'' shall be considered to be a 
    reference to the ``White Sands National Park''.
        (4) Availability of funds.--Any funds available for the 
    Monument shall be available for the Park.
        (5) Administration.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
    administer the Park in accordance with--
            (A) this subsection; and
            (B) the laws generally applicable to units of the National 
        Park System, including section 100101(a), chapter 1003, 
        sections 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101, and chapter 
        3201 of title 54, United States Code.
        (6) World heritage list nomination.--
            (A) County concurrence.--The Secretary of the Interior 
        shall not submit a nomination for the Park to be included on 
        the World Heritage List of the United Nations Educational, 
        Scientific and Cultural Organization unless each county in 
        which the Park is located concurs in the nomination.
            (B) Army notification.--Before submitting a nomination for 
        the Park to be included on the World Heritage List of the 
        United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural 
        Organization, the Secretary of the Interior shall notify the 
        Secretary of the Army of the intent of the Secretary of the 
        Interior to nominate the Park.
        (7) Effect.--Nothing in this subsection affects--
            (A) valid existing rights (including water rights);
            (B) permits or contracts issued by the Monument;
            (C) existing agreements, including agreements with the 
        Department of Defense;
            (D) the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense regarding 
        the restricted airspace above the Park; or
            (E) the airshed classification of the Park under the Clean 
        Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.).
    (c) Modification of Boundaries of White Sands National Park and 
White Sands Missile Range.--
        (1) Transfers of administrative jurisdiction.--
            (A) Transfer of administrative jurisdiction to the 
        secretary of the interior.--
                (i) In general.--Administrative jurisdiction over the 
            land described in clause (ii) is transferred from the 
            Secretary of the Army to the Secretary of the Interior.
                (ii) Description of land.--The land referred to in 
            clause (i) is--

                    (I) the approximately 2,826 acres of land 
                identified as ``To NPS, lands inside current boundary'' 
                on the Map; and
                    (II) the approximately 5,766 acres of land 
                identified as ``To NPS, new additions'' on the Map.

            (B) Transfer of administrative jurisdiction to the 
        secretary of the army.--
                (i) In general.--Administrative jurisdiction over the 
            land described in clause (ii) is transferred from the 
            Secretary of the Interior to the Secretary of the Army.
                (ii) Description of land.--The land referred to in 
            clause (i) is the approximately 3,737 acres of land 
            identified as ``To DOA'' on the Map.
        (2) Boundary modifications.--
            (A) Park.--
                (i) In general.--The boundary of the Park is revised to 
            reflect the boundary depicted on the Map.
                (ii) Map.--

                    (I) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior, in 
                coordination with the Secretary of the Army, shall 
                prepare and keep on file for public inspection in the 
                appropriate office of the Secretary of the Interior a 
                map and a legal description of the revised boundary of 
                the Park.
                    (II) Effect.--The map and legal description under 
                subclause (I) shall have the same force and effect as 
                if included in this section, except that the Secretary 
                of the Interior may correct clerical and typographical 
                errors in the map and legal description.

                (iii) Boundary survey.--As soon as practicable after 
            the date of the establishment of the Park and subject to 
            the availability of funds, the Secretary of the Interior 
            shall complete an official boundary survey of the Park.
            (B) Missile range.--
                (i) In general.--The boundary of the missile range and 
            the Public Land Order are modified to exclude the land 
            transferred to the Secretary of the Interior under 
            paragraph (1)(A) and to include the land transferred to the 
            Secretary of the Army under paragraph (1)(B).
                (ii) Map.--The Secretary of the Interior shall prepare 
            a map and legal description depicting the revised boundary 
            of the missile range.
            (C) Conforming amendment.--Section 2854 of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1997 (Public Law 104-
        201; 54 U.S.C. 320301 note) is repealed.
        (3) Administration.--
            (A) Park.--The Secretary of the Interior shall administer 
        the land transferred under paragraph (1)(A) in accordance with 
        laws (including regulations) applicable to the Park.
            (B) Missile range.--Subject to subparagraph (C), the 
        Secretary of the Army shall administer the land transferred to 
        the Secretary of the Army under paragraph (1)(B) as part of the 
        missile range.
            (C) Infrastructure; resource management.--
                (i) Range road 7.--

                    (I) Infrastructure management.--To the maximum 
                extent practicable, in planning, constructing, and 
                managing infrastructure on the land described in 
                subclause (III), the Secretary of the Army shall apply 
                low-impact development techniques and strategies to 
                prevent impacts within the missile range and the Park 
                from stormwater runoff from the land described in that 
                subclause.
                    (II) Resource management.--The Secretary of the 
                Army shall--

                        (aa) manage the land described in subclause 
                    (III) in a manner consistent with the protection of 
                    natural and cultural resources within the missile 
                    range and the Park and in accordance with section 
                    101(a)(1)(B) of the Sikes Act (16 U.S.C. 
                    670a(a)(1)(B)), division A of subtitle III of title 
                    54, United States Code, and the Native American 
                    Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (25 U.S.C. 
                    3001 et seq.); and
                        (bb) include the land described in subclause 
                    (III) in the integrated natural and cultural 
                    resource management plan for the missile range.

                    (III) Description of land.--The land referred to in 
                subclauses (I) and (II) is the land that is transferred 
                to the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary of 
                the Army under paragraph (1)(B) and located in the area 
                east of Range Road 7 in--

                        (aa) T. 17 S., R. 5 E., sec. 31;
                        (bb) T. 18 S., R. 5 E.; and
                        (cc) T. 19 S., R. 5 E., sec. 5.
                (ii) Fence.--

                    (I) In general.--The Secretary of the Army shall 
                continue to allow the Secretary of the Interior to 
                maintain the fence shown on the Map until such time as 
                the Secretary of the Interior determines that the fence 
                is unnecessary for the management of the Park.
                    (II) Removal.--If the Secretary of the Interior 
                determines that the fence is unnecessary for the 
                management of the Park under subclause (I), the 
                Secretary of the Interior shall promptly remove the 
                fence at the expense of the Department of the Interior.

            (D) Research.--The Secretary of the Army and the Secretary 
        of the Interior may enter into an agreement to allow the 
        Secretary of the Interior to conduct certain research in the 
        area identified as ``Cooperative Use Research Area'' on the 
        Map.
            (E) Military munitions and munitions debris.--
                (i) Response action.--With respect to any Federal 
            liability, the Secretary of the Army shall remain 
            responsible for any response action addressing military 
            munitions or munitions debris on the land transferred under 
            paragraph (1)(A) to the same extent as on the day before 
            the date of the enactment of this Act.
                (ii) Investigation of military munitions and munitions 
            debris.--

                    (I) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior may 
                request that the Secretary of the Army conduct 1 or 
                more investigations of military munitions or munitions 
                debris on any land transferred under paragraph (1)(A).
                    (II) Access.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
                give access to the Secretary of the Army to the land 
                covered by a request under subclause (I) for the 
                purposes of conducting the 1 or more investigations 
                under that subclause.
                    (III) Limitation.--An investigation conducted under 
                this clause shall be subject to available 
                appropriations.

                (iii) Applicable law.--Any activities undertaken under 
            this subparagraph shall be carried out in accordance with--

                    (I) the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
                Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 
                et seq.);
                    (II) the purposes for which the Park was 
                established; and
                    (III) any other applicable law.

                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

SEC. 2861. INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF FIRE EXTINGUISHERS IN 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FACILITIES.
    The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that portable fire 
extinguishers are installed and maintained in all Department of Defense 
facilities, in accordance with requirements of national model fire 
codes developed by the National Fire Protection Association and the 
International Code Council that require redundancy and extinguishers 
throughout occupancies regardless of the presence of other suppression 
systems or alarm systems.
SEC. 2862. DEFINITION OF COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE FOR PURPOSES OF 
MILITARY BASE REUSE STUDIES AND COMMUNITY PLANNING ASSISTANCE.
    Paragraph (4) of section 2391(e) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended to read as follows:
        ``(4)(A) The term `community infrastructure' means a project or 
    facility described in subparagraph (B) that--
            ``(i) is located off of a military installation; and
            ``(ii) is--
                ``(I) owned by a State or local government; or
                ``(II) a not-for-profit, member-owned utility service.
        ``(B) A project or facility described in this subparagraph is 
    any of the following:
            ``(i) Any transportation project.
            ``(ii) A school, hospital, police, fire, emergency 
        response, or other community support facility.
            ``(iii) A water, waste-water, telecommunications, electric, 
        gas, or other utility infrastructure project.''.
SEC. 2863. TEMPORARY AUTHORITY FOR ACCEPTANCE AND USE OF CONTRIBUTIONS 
FOR CERTAIN DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS MUTUALLY BENEFICIAL TO THE 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AND THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA.
    (a) Acceptance of Contributions.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary concerned may accept cash 
    contributions from the Republic of Korea to carry out the 
    following:
            (A) The design and construction of the Black Hat 
        Intelligence Fusion Center, Camp Humphreys, Republic of Korea.
            (B) The design of the Korean Air and Space Operations and 
        Intelligence Center, Osan Air Base, Republic of Korea.
        (2) Cost-sharing agreement.--In the event the contribution 
    under paragraph (1) is insufficient to cover the entire cost of the 
    activity authorized under that paragraph, the Secretary concerned 
    shall enter into a cost-sharing agreement with the Republic of 
    Korea detailing the portion of the authorized activity that is to 
    be funded with the contribution and identifying sufficient other 
    funds to undertake the entire authorized activity.
    (b) Establishment of Account.--Contributions accepted under 
subsection (a) shall be placed in an account established by the 
Secretary concerned and shall remain available until expended as 
provided in such subsection.
    (c) Notice.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 14 days before carrying out a 
    project using contributions accepted under subsection (a) for which 
    the estimated cost of the project will exceed the thresholds 
    prescribed by section 2805 of title 10, United States Code, the 
    Secretary concerned shall submit to the congressional defense 
    committees, the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, and 
    the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives--
            (A) a written notice of the decision to carry out the 
        project;
            (B) a justification for the project; and
            (C) the estimated cost of the project.
        (2) Notice for projects that require cost sharing.--Not later 
    than 14 days before carrying out a project using contributions 
    accepted under subsection (a) for which a cost-sharing agreement is 
    entered into under paragraph (2) of such subsection, the Secretary 
    concerned shall submit to the congressional defense committees in 
    an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of title 10, United 
    States Code--
            (A) a written notice of the acceptance of the contributions 
        for the project;
            (B) a copy of the Department of Defense Form 1391 for the 
        project;
            (C) the estimated cost of the project; and
            (D) details on the cost-sharing agreement with the Republic 
        of Korea.
    (d) Expiration of Project Authority.--
        (1) In general.--The authority to accept contributions and 
    carry out projects under this section expires on September 30, 
    2030.
        (2) Continuation of projects.--The expiration of authority 
    under paragraph (1) does not prevent the continuation of any 
    project commenced before the date specified in that paragraph.
    (e) Mutually Beneficial.--A project described in subsection (a) 
shall be considered to be mutually beneficial if--
        (1) the project is in support of a bilateral defense 
    cooperation agreement between the United States and the Republic of 
    Korea; or
        (2) the Secretary concerned determines that the United States 
    may derive a benefit from the project, including--
            (A) access to and use of facilities of the military forces 
        of the Republic of Korea;
            (B) ability or capacity for future force posture; and
            (C) increased interoperability between military forces of 
        the Department of Defense and the Republic of Korea.
    (f) Secretary Concerned Defined.--In this section, the term 
``Secretary concerned'' has the meaning given that term in section 
101(9) of title 10, United States Code.
SEC. 2864. BLACK START EXERCISES AT MILITARY INSTALLATIONS.
    (a) Requirement.--Not later than September 30, 2020, the Secretary 
of Defense shall conduct a black start exercise at three military 
installations, at least one of which shall be a Joint Base. The 
exercises shall be conducted at installations at which such an exercise 
has not previously been conducted, for the purpose of identifying any 
shortcomings in infrastructure, joint operations, joint coordination, 
and security that would result from a loss of power at the 
installation.
    (b) Report.--Not later than June 1, 2020, the Secretary of Defense 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that 
contains a discussion of lessons learned from black start exercises 
conducted by the Secretary of Defense during the period beginning with 
the first such exercise and ending on December 31, 2019, including the 
three most recurring issues identified as a result of such exercises 
with respect to infrastructure, joint coordination efforts, and 
security.
    (c) Black Start Exercise Defined.--In this section, the term 
``black start exercise'' means, with respect to a military 
installation, an exercise in which commercial utility power at the 
installation is dropped before backup generation assets start, for the 
purpose of--
        (1) testing the ability of the backup systems to start, 
    transfer the load, and carry the load until commercial power is 
    restored;
        (2) aligning stakeholders on critical energy requirements to 
    meet mission requirements;
        (3) validating mission operation plans, such as continuity of 
    operations plans;
        (4) identifying infrastructure interdependencies; and
        (5) verifying backup electric power system performance.
SEC. 2865. PILOT PROGRAM TO EXTEND SERVICE LIFE OF ROADS AND RUNWAYS 
UNDER THE JURISDICTION OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Pilot Program Authorized.--The Secretary of Defense, in 
consultation with the Secretary of Transportation, may carry out a 
pilot program to design, build, and test technologies, techniques, and 
materials in order to extend the service life of roads and runways 
under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Defense.
    (b) Scope.--The pilot program under subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) The design, testing, and assembly of technologies and 
    systems suitable for pavement applications.
        (2) Research, development, and testing of pavement materials 
    for use in different geographic areas in the United States.
        (3) The design and procurement of platforms and equipment to 
    test the performance, cost, feasibility, and effectiveness of the 
    technologies, systems, and materials described in paragraphs (1) 
    and (2).
    (c) Award of Contracts or Grants.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may carry out the 
    pilot program under subsection (a) through the award of contracts 
    or grants for the designing, building, or testing of technologies, 
    techniques, and materials under the pilot program.
        (2) Merit-based selection.--Any award of a contract or grant 
    under the pilot program under subsection (a) shall be made using 
    merit-based selection procedures.
    (d) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than two years after the 
    commencement of the pilot program under subsection (a), the 
    Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
    committees a report on the pilot program.
        (2) Contents.--The report under paragraph (1) with respect to 
    the pilot program shall include the following:
            (A) An assessment of the effectiveness of activities under 
        the pilot program in improving the service life of roads and 
        runways under the jurisdiction of the Secretary.
            (B) An analysis of the potential lifetime cost savings and 
        reduction in energy demands associated with the extended 
        service life of such roads and runways.
    (e) Termination of Authority.--The pilot program under subsection 
(a) shall terminate on September 30, 2024.
SEC. 2866. RESTRICTIONS ON REHABILITATION OF OVER-THE-HORIZON 
BACKSCATTER RADAR SYSTEM RECEIVING STATION, MODOC COUNTY, CALIFORNIA.
    (a) Restrictions.--Except as provided in subsection (b), the 
Secretary of the Air Force may not use any funds or resources of the 
Department of the Air Force to carry out the rehabilitation of the 
obsolete Over-the-Horizon Backscatter Radar System receiving station 
located in Modoc National Forest in the State of California.
    (b) Exception for Removal of Perimeter Fence.--Notwithstanding 
subsection (a), the Secretary of the Air Force may use funds and 
resources of the Department of the Air Force--
        (1) to remove the perimeter fence, which was treated with an 
    arsenic-based weatherproof coating, surrounding the Over-the-
    Horizon Backscatter Radar System receiving station referred to in 
    such subsection; and
        (2) to carry out the mitigation of soil contamination 
    associated with such fence.
    (c) Sunset.--The restrictions in subsection (a) shall terminate on 
the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2025.
SEC. 2867. DESIGNATION OF SUMPTER SMITH JOINT NATIONAL GUARD BASE.
    (a) Designation.--The Sumpter Smith Air National Guard Base in 
Birmingham, Alabama, shall after the date of the enactment of this Act 
be known and designated as the ``Sumpter Smith Joint National Guard 
Base''.
    (b) Reference.--Any reference in any law, regulation, map, 
document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
installation referred to in subsection (a) shall be considered to be a 
reference to the Sumpter Smith Joint National Guard Base.
SEC. 2868. SANTA YNEZ BAND OF CHUMASH INDIANS LAND AFFIRMATION.
    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Santa Ynez 
Band of Chumash Indians Land Affirmation Act of 2019''.
    (b) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
        (1) On October 13, 2017, the General Council of the Santa Ynez 
    Band of Chumash Indians voted to approve the Memorandum of 
    Agreement between the County of Santa Barbara and the Santa Ynez 
    Band of Chumash Indians regarding the approximately 1,427.28 acres 
    of land, commonly known as Camp 4, and authorized the Tribal 
    Chairman to sign the Memorandum of Agreement.
        (2) On October 31, 2017, the Board of Supervisors for the 
    County of Santa Barbara approved the Memorandum of Agreement on 
    Camp 4 and authorized the Chair to sign the Memorandum of 
    Agreement.
        (3) The Secretary of the Interior approved the Memorandum of 
    Agreement pursuant to section 2103 of the Revised Statutes (25 
    U.S.C. 81).
    (c) Land to Be Taken Into Trust.--
        (1) In general.--The approximately l,427.28 acres of land in 
    Santa Barbara County, CA described in paragraph (3), is hereby 
    taken into trust for the benefit of the Tribe, subject to valid 
    existing rights, contracts, and management agreements related to 
    easements and rights-of-way.
        (2) Administration.--
            (A) Administration.--The land described in paragraph (3) 
        shall be a part of the Santa Ynez Indian Reservation and 
        administered in accordance with the laws and regulations 
        generally applicable to the land held in trust by the United 
        States for an Indian tribe.
            (B) Effect.--For purposes of certain California State laws 
        (including the California Land Conservation Act of 1965, 
        Government Code Section 51200, et seq.), placing the land 
        described in paragraph (3) into trust shall remove any 
        restrictions on the property pursuant to California Government 
        Code Section 51295 or any other provision of such Act.
        (3) Legal description of lands transferred.--The lands to be 
    taken into trust for the benefit of the Tribe pursuant to this Act 
    are described as follows:
        Legal Land Description/Site Location: Real property in the 
    unincorporated area of the County of Santa Barbara, State of 
    California, described as follows: PARCEL 1: (APN: 141-121-51 AND 
    PORTION OF APN 141-140-10) LOTS 9 THROUGH 18, INCLUSIVE, OF TRACT 
    18, IN THE COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA, STATE OF CALIFORNIA, AS SHOWN 
    ON THE MAP SHOWING THE SUBDIVISIONS OF THE CANADA DE LOS PINOS OR 
    COLLEGE RANCHO, FILED IN RACK 3, AS MAP 4 IN THE OFFICE OF THE 
    COUNTY RECORDER OF SAID COUNTY. THIS LEGAL IS MADE PURSUANT TO THAT 
    CERTAIN CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE RECORDED DECEMBER 5, 2001 AS 
    INSTRUMENT NO. 01-105580 OF OFFICIAL RECORDS. PARCEL 2: (PORTION OF 
    APN: 141-140-10) LOTS 1 THROUGH 12, INCLUSIVE, OF TRACT 24, IN THE 
    COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA, STATE OF CALIFORNIA, AS SHOWN ON THE MAP 
    SHOWING THE SUBDIVISIONS OF THE CANADA DE LOS PINOS OR COLLEGE 
    RANCHO, FILED IN RACK 3, AS MAP 4 IN THE OFFICE OF THE COUNTY 
    RECORDER OF SAID COUNTY. THIS LEGAL IS MADE PURSUANT TO THAT 
    CERTAIN CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE RECORDED DECEMBER 5, 2001 AS 
    INSTRUMENT NO. 01-105581 OF OFFICIAL RECORDS. PARCEL 3: (PORTIONS 
    OF APNS: 141-230-23 AND 141-140-10) LOTS 19 AND 20 OF TRACT 18 AND 
    THAT PORTION OF LOTS 1, 2, 7, 8, 9, 10, AND 15 THROUGH 20, 
    INCLUSIVE, OF TRACT 16, IN THE COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA, STATE OF 
    CALIFORNIA, AS SHOWN ON THE MAP SHOWING THE SUBDIVISIONS OF THE 
    CANADA DE LOS PINOS OR COLLEGE RANCHO, FILED IN RACK 3, AS MAP 4 IN 
    THE OFFICE OF THE COUNTY RECORDER OF SAID COUNTY, THAT LIES 
    NORTHEASTERLY OF THE NORTHEASTERLY LINE OF THE LAND GRANTED TO THE 
    STATE OF CALIFORNIA BY AN EXECUTOR'S DEED RECORDED APRIL 2, 1968 IN 
    BOOK 2227, PAGE 136 OF OFFICIAL RECORDS OF SAID COUNTY. THIS LEGAL 
    IS MADE PURSUANT TO THAT CERTAIN CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE RECORDED 
    DECEMBER 5, 2001 AS INSTRUMENT NO. 01-105582 OF OFFICIAL RECORDS. 
    PARCEL 4: (APN: 141-240-02 AND PORTION OF APN: 141-140-10) LOTS 1 
    THROUGH 12, INCLUSIVE, OF TRACT 25, IN THE COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA, 
    STATE OF CALIFORNIA, AS SHOWN ON THE MAP SHOWING THE SUBDIVISIONS 
    OF THE CANADA DE LOS PINOS OR COLLEGE RANCHO, FILED IN RACK 3, AS 
    MAP 4 IN THE OFFICE OF THE COUNTY RECORDER OF SAID COUNTY. THIS 
    LEGAL IS MADE PURSUANT TO THAT CERTAIN CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE 
    RECORDED DECEMBER 5, 2001 AS INSTRUMENT NO. 01-105583 OF OFFICIAL 
    RECORDS. PARCEL 5: (PORTION OF APN: 141-230-23) THAT PORTION OF 
    LOTS 3 AND 6 OF TRACT 16, IN THE COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA, STATE OF 
    CALIFORNIA, AS SHOWN ON THE MAP SHOWING THE SUBDIVISIONS OF THE 
    CANADA DE LOS PINOS OR COLLEGE RANCHO, FILED IN RACK 3, AS MAP 4 IN 
    THE OFFICE OF THE COUNTY RECORDER OF SAID COUNTY, THAT LIES 
    NORTHEASTERLY OF THE NORTHEASTERLY LINE OF THE LAND GRANTED TO THE 
    STATE OF CALIFORNIA BY AN EXECUTOR'S DEED RECORDED APRIL 2, 1968 IN 
    BOOK 2227, PAGE 136 OF OFFICIAL RECORDS OF SAID COUNTY. THIS LEGAL 
    IS MADE PURSUANT TO THAT CERTAIN CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE RECORDED 
    DECEMBER 5, 2001 AS INSTRUMENT NO. 01-105584 OF OFFICIAL RECORDS.
        (4) Rules of construction.--Nothing in this section shall--
            (A) enlarge, impair, or otherwise affect any right or claim 
        of the Tribe to any land or interest in land that is in 
        existence before the date of the enactment of this Act;
            (B) affect any water right of the Tribe in existence before 
        the date of the enactment of this Act; or
            (C) terminate or limit any access in any way to any right-
        of-way or right-of-use issued, granted, or permitted before the 
        date of the enactment of this Act.
        (5) Restricted use of transferred lands.--The Tribe may not 
    conduct, on the land described in paragraph (3) taken into trust 
    for the Tribe pursuant to this section, gaming activities--
            (A) as a matter of claimed inherent authority; or
            (B) under any Federal law, including the Indian Gaming 
        Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.) and regulations 
        promulgated by the Secretary or the National Indian Gaming 
        Commission under that Act.
        (6) Definitions.--For the purposes of this subsection:
            (A) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (B) Tribe.--The term ``Tribe'' means the Santa Ynez Band of 
        Chumash Mission Indians.
SEC. 2869. LANDS TO BE TAKEN INTO TRUST AS PART OF THE RESERVATION OF 
THE LYTTON RANCHERIA.
    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
        (1) The Lytton Rancheria of California is a federally 
    recognized Indian tribe that lost its homeland after its 
    relationship to the United States was unjustly and unlawfully 
    terminated in 1958. The Tribe was restored to Federal recognition 
    in 1991, but the conditions of its restoration have prevented it 
    from regaining a homeland on its original lands.
        (2) Congress needs to take action to reverse historic 
    injustices that befell the Tribe and that have prevented it from 
    regaining a viable homeland for its people.
        (3) Prior to European contact there were as many as 350,000 
    Indians living in what is now the State of California. By the turn 
    of the 19th century, that number had been reduced to approximately 
    15,000 individuals, many of them homeless and living in scattered 
    bands and communities.
        (4) The Lytton Rancheria's original homeland was purchased by 
    the United States in 1926 pursuant to congressional authority 
    designed to remedy the unique tragedy that befell the Indians of 
    California and provide them with reservations called Rancherias to 
    be held in trust by the United States.
        (5) After the Lytton Rancheria lands were purchased by the 
    United States, the Tribe settled on the land and sustained itself 
    for several decades by farming and ranching.
        (6) By the mid-1950s, Federal Indian policy had shifted back 
    towards a policy of terminating the Federal relationship with 
    Indian tribes. In 1958, Congress enacted the Rancheria Act of 1958 
    (72 Stat. 619), which slated 41 Rancherias in California, including 
    the Lytton Rancheria, for termination after certain conditions were 
    met.
        (7) On August 1, 1961, the Federal Government terminated its 
    relationship with the Lytton Rancheria. This termination was 
    illegal because the conditions for termination under the Rancheria 
    Act had never been met. After termination was implemented, the 
    Tribe lost its lands and was left without any means of supporting 
    itself.
        (8) In 1987, the Tribe joined three other tribes in a lawsuit 
    against the United States challenging the illegal termination of 
    their Rancherias. A Stipulated Judgment in the case, Scotts Valley 
    Band of Pomo Indians of the Sugar Bowl Rancheria v. United States, 
    No. C-86-3660 (N.D.Cal. March 22, 1991), restored the Lytton 
    Rancheria to its status as a federally recognized Indian tribe.
        (9) The Stipulated Judgment provides that the Lytton Rancheria 
    would have the ``individual and collective status and rights'' 
    which it had prior to its termination and expressly contemplated 
    the acquisition of trust lands for the Lytton Rancheria.
        (10) The Stipulated Judgment contains provisions, included at 
    the request of the local county governments and neighboring 
    landowners, that prohibit the Lytton Rancheria from exercising its 
    full Federal rights on its original homeland in the Alexander 
    Valley.
        (11) In 2000, approximately 9.5 acres of land in San Pablo, 
    California, was placed in trust status for the Lytton Rancheria for 
    economic development purposes.
        (12) The Tribe has since acquired, from willing sellers at fair 
    market value, property in Sonoma County near the Tribe's historic 
    Rancheria. This property, which the Tribe holds in fee status, is 
    suitable for a new homeland for the Tribe.
        (13) On a portion of the land to be taken into trust, which 
    portion totals approximately 124.12 acres, the Tribe plans to build 
    housing for its members and governmental and community facilities.
        (14) A portion of the land to be taken into trust is being used 
    for viniculture, and the Tribe intends to develop more of the lands 
    to be taken into trust for viniculture. The Tribe's investment in 
    the ongoing viniculture operation has reinvigorated the vineyards, 
    which are producing high-quality wines. The Tribe is operating its 
    vineyards on a sustainable basis and is working toward 
    certification of sustainability.
        (15) No gaming shall be conducted on the lands to be taken into 
    trust by this section.
        (16) No gaming shall be conducted on any lands taken into trust 
    on behalf of the Tribe in Sonoma County after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act.
        (17) By directing that these lands be taken into trust, the 
    United States will ensure that the Lytton Rancheria will finally 
    have a permanently protected homeland on which the Tribe can once 
    again live communally and plan for future generations. This action 
    is necessary to fully restore the Tribe to the status it had before 
    it was wrongfully terminated in 1961.
        (18) The Tribe and County of Sonoma have entered into a 
    Memorandum of Agreement as amended in 2018 in which the County 
    agrees to the lands in the County being taken into trust for the 
    benefit of the Tribe in consideration for commitments made by the 
    Tribe.
    (b) Definitions.--For the purpose of this section, the following 
definitions apply:
        (1) County.--The term ``County'' means Sonoma County, 
    California.
        (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior.
        (3) Tribe.--The term ``Tribe'' means the Lytton Rancheria of 
    California.
    (c) Lands to Be Taken Into Trust.--
        (1) In general.--The land owned by the Tribe and generally 
    depicted on the map titled ``Lytton Fee Owned Property to be Taken 
    into Trust'' and dated May 1, 2015, is hereby taken into trust for 
    the benefit of the Tribe, subject to valid existing rights, 
    contracts, and management agreements related to easements and 
    rights-of-way.
        (2) Lands to be made part of the reservation.--Lands taken into 
    trust under paragraph (1) shall be part of the Tribe's reservation 
    and shall be administered in accordance with the laws and 
    regulations generally applicable to property held in trust by the 
    United States for an Indian tribe.
    (d) Gaming.--
        (1) Lands taken into trust under this section.--Lands taken 
    into trust for the benefit of the Tribe under subsection (c) shall 
    not be eligible for gaming under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act 
    (25 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.).
        (2) Other lands taken into trust.--Lands taken into trust for 
    the benefit of the Tribe in Sonoma County after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act shall not be eligible for gaming under the 
    Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.).
    (e) Applicability of Certain Law.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Memorandum of Agreement entered into by the Tribe 
and the County concerning taking land in the County into trust for the 
benefit of the Tribe, which was approved by the County Board of 
Supervisors on March 10, 2015, and any addenda and supplement or 
amendment thereto, is not subject to review or approval of the 
Secretary in order to be effective, including review or approval under 
section 2103 of the Revised Statutes (25 U.S.C. 81).
SEC. 2870. LITTLE SHELL TRIBE OF CHIPPEWA INDIANS OF MONTANA.
    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
        (1) the Little Shell Tribe of Chippewa Indians is a political 
    successor to signatories of the Pembina Treaty of 1863, under which 
    a large area of land in the State of North Dakota was ceded to the 
    United States;
        (2) the Turtle Mountain Band of Chippewa of North Dakota and 
    the Chippewa-Cree Tribe of the Rocky Boy's Reservation of Montana, 
    which also are political successors to the signatories of the 
    Pembina Treaty of 1863, have been recognized by the Federal 
    Government as distinct Indian tribes;
        (3) the members of the Little Shell Tribe continue to live in 
    the State of Montana, as their ancestors have for more than 100 
    years since ceding land in the State of North Dakota as described 
    in paragraph (1);
        (4) in the 1930s and 1940s, the Tribe repeatedly petitioned the 
    Federal Government for reorganization under the Act of June 18, 
    1934 (25 U.S.C. 5101 et seq.) (commonly known as the ``Indian 
    Reorganization Act'');
        (5) Federal agents who visited the Tribe and Commissioner of 
    Indian Affairs John Collier attested to the responsibility of the 
    Federal Government for the Tribe and members of the Tribe, 
    concluding that members of the Tribe are eligible for, and should 
    be provided with, trust land, making the Tribe eligible for 
    reorganization under the Act of June 18, 1934 (25 U.S.C. 5101 et 
    seq.) (commonly known as the ``Indian Reorganization Act'');
        (6) due to a lack of Federal appropriations during the 
    Depression, the Bureau of Indian Affairs lacked adequate financial 
    resources to purchase land for the Tribe, and the members of the 
    Tribe were denied the opportunity to reorganize;
        (7) in spite of the failure of the Federal Government to 
    appropriate adequate funding to secure land for the Tribe as 
    required for reorganization under the Act of June 18, 1934 (25 
    U.S.C. 5101 et seq.) (commonly known as the ``Indian Reorganization 
    Act''), the Tribe continued to exist as a separate community, with 
    leaders exhibiting clear political authority;
        (8) the Tribe, together with the Turtle Mountain Band of 
    Chippewa of North Dakota and the Chippewa-Cree Tribe of the Rocky 
    Boy's Reservation of Montana, filed 2 law suits under the Act of 
    August 13, 1946 (60 Stat. 1049) (commonly known as the ``Indian 
    Claims Commission Act''), to petition for additional compensation 
    for land ceded to the United States under the Pembina Treaty of 
    1863 and the McCumber Agreement of 1892;
        (9) in 1971 and 1982, pursuant to Acts of Congress, the tribes 
    received awards for the claims described in paragraph (8);
        (10) in 1978, the Tribe submitted to the Bureau of Indian 
    Affairs a petition for Federal recognition, which is still pending 
    as of the date of enactment of this Act; and
        (11) the Federal Government, the State of Montana, and the 
    other federally recognized Indian tribes of the State have had 
    continuous dealings with the recognized political leaders of the 
    Tribe since the 1930s.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Member.--The term ``member'' means an individual who is 
    enrolled in the Tribe pursuant to subsection (f).
        (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior.
        (3) Tribe.--The term ``Tribe'' means the Little Shell Tribe of 
    Chippewa Indians of Montana.
    (c) Federal Recognition.--
        (1) In general.--Federal recognition is extended to the Tribe.
        (2) Effect of federal laws.--Except as otherwise provided in 
    this section, all Federal laws (including regulations) of general 
    application to Indians and Indian tribes, including the Act of June 
    18, 1934 (25 U.S.C. 5101 et seq.) (commonly known as the ``Indian 
    Reorganization Act''), shall apply to the Tribe and members.
    (d) Federal Services and Benefits.--
        (1) In general.--Beginning on the date of enactment of this 
    Act, the Tribe and each member shall be eligible for all services 
    and benefits provided by the United States to Indians and federally 
    recognized Indian tribes, without regard to--
            (A) the existence of a reservation for the Tribe; or
            (B) the location of the residence of any member on or near 
        an Indian reservation.
        (2) Service area.--For purposes of the delivery of services and 
    benefits to members, the service area of the Tribe shall be 
    considered to be the area comprised of Blaine, Cascade, Glacier, 
    and Hill Counties in the State of Montana.
    (e) Reaffirmation of Rights.--
        (1) In general.--Nothing in this section diminishes any right 
    or privilege of the Tribe or any member that existed before the 
    date of enactment of this Act.
        (2) Claims of tribe.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
    section, nothing in this section alters or affects any legal or 
    equitable claim of the Tribe to enforce any right or privilege 
    reserved by, or granted to, the Tribe that was wrongfully denied 
    to, or taken from, the Tribe before the date of enactment of this 
    Act.
    (f) Membership Roll.--
        (1) In general.--As a condition of receiving recognition, 
    services, and benefits pursuant to this section, the Tribe shall 
    submit to the Secretary, by not later than 18 months after the date 
    of enactment of this Act, a membership roll consisting of the name 
    of each individual enrolled as a member of the Tribe.
        (2) Determination of membership.--The qualifications for 
    inclusion on the membership roll of the Tribe shall be determined 
    in accordance with sections 1 through 3 of article 5 of the 
    constitution of the Tribe dated September 10, 1977 (including 
    amendments to the constitution).
        (3) Maintenance of roll.--The Tribe shall maintain the 
    membership roll under this subsection.
    (g) Acquisition of Land.--
        (1) Homeland.--The Secretary shall acquire, for the benefit of 
    the Tribe, trust title to 200 acres of land within the service area 
    of the Tribe to be used for a tribal land base.
        (2) Additional land.--The Secretary may acquire additional land 
    for the benefit of the Tribe pursuant to section 5 of the Act of 
    June 18, 1934 (25 U.S.C. 5108) (commonly known as the ``Indian 
    Reorganization Act'').
SEC. 2871. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON RESTORATION OF TYNDALL AIR FORCE BASE.
    It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of the Air Force 
should--
        (1) restore Tyndall Air Force Base to achieve military 
    installation resilience, as defined in section 101(e)(8) of title 
    10, United States Code; and
        (2) use innovative construction methods, materials, designs, 
    and technologies in carrying out such restoration in order to 
    achieve efficiencies, cost savings, resiliency, and capability, 
    which may include--
            (A) open architecture design to evolve with the national 
        defense strategy; and
            (B) efficient ergonomic enterprise for members of the Air 
        Force in the 21st century.

 TITLE XXIX--AUTHORIZATION OF OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS MILITARY 
            CONSTRUCTION AND EMERGENCY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

    Subtitle A--Overseas Contingency Operations Military Construction

Sec. 2901. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2902. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2903. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2904. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2905. Authorization of appropriations.

               Subtitle B--Emergency Military Construction

Sec. 2911. Authorization of emergency Navy construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2912. Authorization of emergency Air Force construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2913. Authorization of emergency Army National Guard construction 
          and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2914. Authorization of emergency Defense Agencies construction and 
          land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2915. Authorization of emergency supplemental appropriations for 
          military construction projects.

   Subtitle A--Overseas Contingency Operations Military Construction

SEC. 2901. AUTHORIZED ARMY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    (a) Authorization.--Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary of the 
Army may acquire real property and carry out the military construction 
projects for the installations outside the United States, and in the 
amounts, set forth in the following table:


                                         Army: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Country                                        Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cuba............................................  Guantanamo Bay Naval Station...............        $33,800,000
Worldwide Unspecified...........................  European Deterrence Initiative: Various            $78,412,000
                                                   Locations.................................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Report Required as Condition of Authorization.--Not later than 
90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
the Army shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
containing a plan to carry out each military construction project 
authorized in the final item in the table in subsection (a) for an 
unspecified location for the European Deterrence Initiative. The plan 
shall include a Department of Defense Form 1391 for each proposed 
project. The Secretary may not commence a project until the report has 
been submitted.
SEC. 2902. AUTHORIZED NAVY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    (a) Authorization.--Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary of the 
Navy may acquire real property and carry out the military construction 
projects for the installations outside the United States, and in the 
amounts, set forth in the following table:


                                         Navy: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Country                                        Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bahrain.........................................  SW Asia....................................        $53,360,000
Italy...........................................  Sigonella..................................        $77,400,000
Spain...........................................  Rota.......................................        $69,570,000
Worldwide Unspecified...........................  European Deterrence Initiative: Various            $36,211,000
                                                   Locations.................................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Report Required as Condition of Authorization.--Not later than 
90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
the Navy shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
containing a plan to carry out each military construction project 
authorized in the final item in the table in subsection (a) for an 
unspecified location for the European Deterrence Initiative. The plan 
shall include a Department of Defense Form 1391 for each proposed 
project. The Secretary may not commence a project until the report has 
been submitted.
SEC. 2903. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Authorization.--Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary of the 
Air Force may acquire real property and carry out the military 
construction projects for the installations outside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:


                                      Air Force: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Country                                        Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Iceland.........................................  Keflavik...................................        $57,000,000
Jordan..........................................  Azraq......................................        $66,000,000
Spain...........................................  Moron......................................         $8,500,000
Worldwide Unspecified...........................  European Deterrence Initiative: Various           $211,211,000
                                                   Locations.................................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Report Required as Condition of Authorization.--Not later than 
90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
the Air Force shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report containing a plan to carry out each military construction 
project authorized in the final item in the table in subsection (a) for 
an unspecified location for the European Deterrence Initiative. The 
plan shall include a Department of Defense Form 1391 for each proposed 
project. The Secretary may not commence a project until the report has 
been submitted.
SEC. 2904. AUTHORIZED DEFENSE AGENCIES CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    The Secretary of Defense may acquire real property and carry out 
the military construction project for the installation outside the 
United States, and in the amount, set forth in the following table:

                                   Defense Agencies: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Country                                         Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Germany.........................................  Gemersheim...................................      $46,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2905. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2019, for the military construction 
projects outside the United States authorized by this subtitle as 
specified in the funding table in section 4602.

              Subtitle B--Emergency Military Construction

SEC. 2911. AUTHORIZATION OF EMERGENCY NAVY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    (a) Navy Authorization.--Subject to subsection (b), using amounts 
appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
2915 and available for military construction projects inside the United 
States as specified in the funding table in section 4603, the Secretary 
of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the installations or locations inside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:


                           Navy Authorization
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                Installation or
      State or Location            Location               Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
California...................  Naval Air                  $1,152,680,000
                                Weapons Station
                                China Lake.....
North Carolina...............  Camp Lejeune....             $627,747,000
                               Marine Corps Air              $66,551,000
                                Station Cherry
                                Point..........
                               NCAS New River..             $465,822,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Report Required as a Condition of Authorization.--Not later 
than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
of the Navy shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report containing a plan to carry out the military construction 
projects authorized by this section. The plan shall include an 
explanation of how each military construction project will incorporate 
mitigation measures that reduce the threat from extreme weather events, 
mean sea level fluctuation, flooding, and any other known environmental 
threat to resilience, including a list of any areas in which there is a 
variance from the local building requirements and an explanation of the 
reason for the variance. The plan shall also include a Department of 
Defense Form 1391 for each proposed project. The Secretary may not 
commence a project until the report required from the Secretary has 
been submitted.
SEC. 2912. AUTHORIZATION OF EMERGENCY AIR FORCE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    (a) Air Force Authorization.--Subject to subsection (b), using 
amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in 
section 2915 and available for military construction projects inside 
the United States as specified in the funding table in section 4603, 
the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out 
military construction projects for the installations or locations 
inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the 
following table:


                         Air Force Authorization
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                Installation or
            State                  Location               Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Florida......................  Tyndall Air                $1,500,200,000
                                Force Base.....
Nebraska.....................  Offutt Air Force             $140,500,000
                                Base...........
Virginia.....................  Joint Base                    $31,000,000
                                Langley-Eustis.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Report Required as Condition of Authorization.--Not later than 
90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
the Air Force shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate a report containing a plan to 
carry out the military construction projects authorized by this 
section. The plan shall include an explanation of how each military 
construction project will incorporate mitigation measures that reduce 
the threat from extreme weather events, mean sea level fluctuation, 
flooding, and any other known environmental threat to resilience, 
including a list of any areas in which there is a variance from the 
local building requirements and an explanation of the reason for the 
variance. The plan shall also include a Department of Defense Form 1391 
for each proposed project. The Secretary may not commence a project 
until the report required from the Secretary has been submitted.
SEC. 2913. AUTHORIZATION OF EMERGENCY ARMY NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION 
AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    (a) Army National Guard Authorization.--Subject to subsection (b), 
using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2915 and available for military construction 
projects inside the United States as specified in the funding table in 
section 4603, the Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and 
carry out military construction projects for the installations or 
locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in 
the following table:


                                        Army National Guard Authorization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                         Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Louisiana.......................................  Pineville..................................        $16,500,000
Nebraska........................................  Ashland....................................        $43,500,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Report Required as Condition of Authorization.--Not later than 
90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
the Army shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
containing a plan to carry out the military construction projects 
authorized by this section. The plan shall include an explanation of 
how each military construction project will incorporate mitigation 
measures that reduce the threat from extreme weather events, mean sea 
level fluctuation, flooding, and any other known environmental threat 
to resilience, including a list of any areas in which there is a 
variance from the local building requirements and an explanation of the 
reason for the variance. The plan shall also include a Department of 
Defense Form 1391 for each proposed project. The Secretary may not 
commence a project until the report required from the Secretary has 
been submitted.
SEC. 2914. AUTHORIZATION OF EMERGENCY DEFENSE AGENCIES CONSTRUCTION AND 
LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    (a) Defense Agencies Authorization.--Subject to subsection (b), 
using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2915 and available for military construction 
projects inside the United States as specified in the funding table in 
section 4603, the Secretary of Defense may acquire real property and 
carry out the military construction project for the installation inside 
the United States, and in the amount, set forth in the following table:


                     Defense Agencies Authorization
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                        Installation or
         State or Location                  Location           Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
North Carolina.....................  Camp Lejeune.........   $75,313,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Report Required as a Condition of Authorization.--Not later 
than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report containing a plan to carry out the military construction project 
authorized by this section. The plan shall include an explanation of 
how the military construction project will incorporate mitigation 
measures that reduce the threat from extreme weather events, mean sea 
level fluctuation, flooding, and any other known environmental threat 
to resilience, including a list of any areas in which there is a 
variance from the local building requirements and an explanation of the 
reason for the variance. The plan shall also include a Department of 
Defense Form 1391 for the proposed project. The Secretary may not 
commence the project until the report required from the Secretary has 
been submitted.
SEC. 2915. AUTHORIZATION OF EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR 
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for the military construction projects authorized by this 
subtitle as specified in the funding table in section 4603, in such 
amounts as may be designated as emergency requirements pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)(i)).

            TITLE XXX--MILITARY HOUSING PRIVATIZATION REFORM

Sec. 3001. Definitions.

              Subtitle A--Addition of New Reform Subchapter

Sec. 3011. Improved accountability and oversight of privatized military 
          housing and protections and responsibilities for tenants of 
          privatized military housing.
Sec. 3012. Designation of Chief Housing Officer for privatized military 
          housing.
Sec. 3013. Additional requirements relating to contracts for privatized 
          military housing.
Sec. 3014. Additional requirements relating to management of privatized 
          military housing.
Sec. 3015. Consideration of contractor history in contracts for 
          privatized military housing.
Sec. 3016. Additional improvements for management of privatized military 
          housing.
Sec. 3017. Maintenance work order system for privatized military 
          housing.
Sec. 3018. Access by tenants of privatized military housing to 
          maintenance work order system.
Sec. 3019. Access by tenants to historical maintenance information for 
          privatized military housing.
Sec. 3020. Prohibition on requirement to disclose personally 
          identifiable information in certain requests for maintenance 
          of privatized military housing.
Sec. 3021. Treatment of incentive fees for landlords of privatized 
          military housing for failure to remedy a health or 
          environmental hazard.
Sec. 3022. Dispute resolution process for landlord-tenant disputes 
          regarding privatized military housing and requests to withhold 
          payments during dispute resolution process.
Sec. 3023. Investigation of reports of reprisals relating to privatized 
          military housing and congressional notification.
Sec. 3024. Prohibition on use of nondisclosure agreements in connection 
          with leases of privatized military housing.

                 Subtitle B--Other Amendatory Provisions

Sec. 3031. Installation of carbon monoxide detectors in military family 
          housing.
Sec. 3032. Authority to furnish certain services in connection with use 
          of alternative authority for acquisition and improvement of 
          military housing.
Sec. 3033. Treatment of breach of contract for privatized military 
          housing.
Sec. 3034. Modification to requirements for window fall prevention 
          devices in military family housing units.
Sec. 3035. Expansion of direct hire authority for Department of Defense 
          for childcare services providers for Department child 
          development centers to include direct hire authority for 
          installation military housing office personnel.
Sec. 3036. Modification of authority to make payments to lessors of 
          privatized military housing.
Sec. 3037. Technical correction to definition used to make payments to 
          lessors of privatized military housing.

               Subtitle C--One-Time Reporting Requirements

Sec. 3041. Report on civilian personnel shortages for appropriate 
          oversight of management of military housing constructed or 
          acquired using alternative authority for acquisition and 
          improvement of military housing.
Sec. 3042. Plans for creation of councils on privatized military 
          housing.
Sec. 3043. Plan for establishment of Department of Defense jurisdiction 
          over off-base privatized military housing.
Sec. 3044. Inspector General review of Department of Defense oversight 
          of privatized military housing.
Sec. 3045. Information on legal services provided to members of the 
          Armed Forces harmed by health or environmental hazards at 
          military housing.

    Subtitle D--Development of Housing Reform Standards and Processes

Sec. 3051. Uniform code of basic standards for privatized military 
          housing and plan to conduct inspections and assessments.
Sec. 3052. Tool for assessment of hazards in Department of Defense 
          housing.
Sec. 3053. Process to identify and address environmental health hazards 
          in Department of Defense housing.
Sec. 3054. Department of Defense policy on lead-based paint testing on 
          military installations.
Sec. 3055. Standard for minimum credentials for health and environmental 
          inspectors of privatized military housing.
Sec. 3056. Requirements relating to move-in, move-out, and maintenance 
          of privatized military housing.
Sec. 3057. Standardized documentation, templates, and forms for 
          privatized military housing.
Sec. 3058. Satisfaction survey for tenants of military housing.

                Subtitle E--Other Housing Reform Matters

Sec. 3061. Radon testing of privatized military housing.
Sec. 3062. Mitigation of risks posed by certain items in military family 
          housing units.
Sec. 3063. Suspension of Resident Energy Conservation Program and 
          related programs for privatized military housing.
Sec. 3064. Department of the Army pilot program to build and monitor use 
          of single family homes.
SEC. 3001. DEFINITIONS.
    (a) Definitions Generally.--In this title:
        (1) The term ``landlord'' means an eligible entity that enters 
    into, or has entered into, a contract as a partner with the 
    Secretary concerned for the acquisition or construction of a 
    housing unit under subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United 
    States Code. The term includes any agent of the eligible entity or 
    any subsequent lessor who owns, manages, or is otherwise 
    responsible for a housing unit. The term does not include an entity 
    of the Federal Government.
        (2) The term ``privatized military housing'' means military 
    housing provided under subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, 
    United States Code.
        (3) The term ``tenant'' means a member of the armed forces, 
    including a reserve component thereof in an active status, or a 
    dependent of a member of the armed forces who resides at a housing 
    unit, is a party to a lease for a housing unit, or is authorized to 
    act on behalf of the member under subchapters IV and V of chapter 
    169 of title 10, United States Code, in the event of the assignment 
    or deployment of a member.
    (b) New and Revised Title 10 Definitions.--Section 2871 of title 
10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (4), by adding at the end the following new 
    sentence: ``The fact that an agreement between an eligible entity 
    and the Secretary concerned is designated as an agreement rather 
    than a contract shall not be construed to exclude the agreement 
    from the term `contract' for purposes of this subchapter and 
    subchapter V.'';
        (2) by redesignating paragraphs (7) and (8) as paragraphs (11) 
    and (13), respectively;
        (3) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following new 
    paragraphs:
        ``(7) The term `housing document' means a document developed by 
    the Secretary of Defense under section 2890 of this title and known 
    as the Military Housing Privatization Initiative Tenant Bill of 
    Rights or the Military Housing Privatization Initiative Tenant 
    Responsibilities.
        ``(8) The term `housing unit' means a unit of family housing or 
    military unaccompanied housing acquired or constructed under this 
    subchapter.
        ``(9) The term `incentive fees' means any amounts payable to a 
    landlord for meeting or exceeding performance metrics as specified 
    in a contract with the Department of Defense.
        ``(10) The term `landlord' means an eligible entity that enters 
    into, or has entered into, a contract as a partner with the 
    Secretary concerned for the acquisition or construction of a 
    housing unit under this subchapter. The term includes any agent of 
    the eligible entity or any subsequent lessor who owns, manages, or 
    is otherwise responsible for a housing unit. The term does not 
    include an entity of the Federal Government.''; and
        (4) by inserting after paragraph (11), as redesignated by 
    paragraph (2) of this subsection, the following new paragraph:
        ``(12) The term `tenant' means a member of the armed forces, 
    including a reserve component thereof in an active status, or a 
    dependent of a member of the armed forces who resides at a housing 
    unit, is a party to a lease for a housing unit, or is authorized to 
    act on behalf of the member under this subchapter and subchapter V 
    of this chapter in the event of the assignment or deployment of a 
    member.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendments to Existing Definitions.--Section 2871 of 
title 10, United States Code, is further amended in paragraphs (1), 
(3), and (5) by striking ``military'' before ``housing units''.

             Subtitle A--Addition of New Reform Subchapter

SEC. 3011. IMPROVED ACCOUNTABILITY AND OVERSIGHT OF PRIVATIZED MILITARY 
HOUSING AND PROTECTIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES FOR TENANTS OF PRIVATIZED 
MILITARY HOUSING.
    (a) Applicability of Definitions.--Section 2871 of title 10, United 
States Code, as amended by section 3001, is further amended in the 
matter preceding the paragraphs by inserting ``and subchapter V of this 
chapter'' after ``this subchapter''.
    (b) Military Housing Privatization Reforms.--Chapter 169 of title 
10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following 
new subchapter:

      ``SUBCHAPTER V--OVERSIGHT OF LANDLORDS AND PROTECTIONS AND 
      RESPONSIBILITIES FOR TENANTS OF PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING

``Sec. 2890. Rights and responsibilities of tenants of housing units
    ``(a) Development of Tenant Bill of Rights and Tenant 
Responsibilities Documents.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall develop 
two separate documents, to be known as the Military Housing 
Privatization Initiative Tenant Bill of Rights and the Military Housing 
Privatization Initiative Tenant Responsibilities, for tenants of 
housing units.
    ``(2) The Secretary of each military department shall ensure that 
the housing documents are attached to each lease agreement for a 
housing unit.
    ``(3) The rights and responsibilities contained in the housing 
documents are not intended to be exclusive. The omission of a tenant 
right or responsibility shall not be construed to deny the existence of 
such a right or responsibility for tenants.
    ``(4) Each contract between the Secretary concerned and a landlord 
shall incorporate the housing documents and guarantee the rights and 
responsibilities of tenants who reside in housing units covered by the 
contract.
    ``(5) The Secretary of Defense shall develop the housing documents 
in coordination with the Secretaries of the military departments.
    ``(b) Elements of Tenant Bill of Rights.--At a minimum, the 
Military Housing Privatization Initiative Tenant Bill of Rights shall 
address the following rights of tenants of housing units:
        ``(1) The right to reside in a housing unit and community that 
    meets applicable health and environmental standards.
        ``(2) The right to reside in a housing unit that has working 
    fixtures, appliances, and utilities and to reside in a community 
    with well-maintained common areas and amenity spaces.
        ``(3) The right to be provided with a maintenance history of 
    the prospective housing unit before signing a lease, as provided in 
    section 2892a of this title.
        ``(4) The right to a written lease with clearly defined rental 
    terms to establish tenancy in a housing unit, including any 
    addendums and other regulations imposed by the landlord regarding 
    occupancy of the housing unit and use of common areas.
        ``(5) The right to a plain-language briefing, before signing a 
    lease and 30 days after move-in, by the installation housing office 
    on all rights and responsibilities associated with tenancy of the 
    housing unit, including information regarding the existence of any 
    additional fees authorized by the lease, any utilities payments, 
    the procedures for submitting and tracking work orders, the 
    identity of the military tenant advocate, and the dispute 
    resolution process.
        ``(6) The right to have sufficient time and opportunity to 
    prepare and be present for move-in and move-out inspections, 
    including an opportunity to obtain and complete necessary 
    paperwork.
        ``(7) The right to report inadequate housing standards or 
    deficits in habitability of the housing unit to the landlord, the 
    chain of command, and housing management office without fear of 
    reprisal or retaliation, as provided in subsection (e), including 
    reprisal or retaliation in the following forms:
            ``(A) Unlawful recovery of, or attempt to recover, 
        possession of the housing unit.
            ``(B) Unlawfully increasing the rent, decreasing services, 
        or increasing the obligations of a tenant.
            ``(C) Interference with a tenant's right to privacy.
            ``(D) Harassment of a tenant.
            ``(E) Refusal to honor the terms of the lease.
            ``(F) Interference with the career of a tenant.
        ``(8) The right of access to a military tenant advocate, as 
    provided in section 2894(b)(4) of this title, through the housing 
    management office of the installation of the Department at which 
    the housing unit is located.
        ``(9) The right to receive property management services 
    provided by a landlord that meet or exceed industry standards and 
    that are performed by professionally and appropriately trained, 
    responsive, and courteous customer service and maintenance staff.
        ``(10) The right to have multiple, convenient methods to 
    communicate directly with the landlord maintenance staff, and to 
    receive consistently honest, accurate, straightforward, and 
    responsive communications.
        ``(11) The right to have access to an electronic work order 
    system through which a tenant may request maintenance or repairs of 
    a housing unit and track the progress of the work.
        ``(12) With respect to maintenance and repairs to a housing 
    unit, the right to the following:
            ``(A) Prompt and professional maintenance and repair.
            ``(B) To be informed of the required time frame for 
        maintenance or repairs when a maintenance request is submitted.
            ``(C) In the case of maintenance or repairs necessary to 
        ensure habitability of a housing unit, to prompt relocation 
        into suitable lodging or other housing at no cost to the tenant 
        until the maintenance or repairs are completed.
        ``(13) The right to receive advice from military legal 
    assistance on procedures involving mechanisms for resolving 
    disputes with the property management company or property manager 
    to include mediation, arbitration, and filing claims against a 
    landlord.
        ``(14) The right to enter into a dispute resolution process, as 
    provided in section 2894 of this title, should all other methods be 
    exhausted and, in which case, a decision in favor of the tenant may 
    include a reduction in rent or an amount to be reimbursed or 
    credited to the tenant.
        ``(15) The right to have the tenant's basic allowance housing 
    payments segregated and held in escrow, with approval of a 
    designated commander, and not used by the property owner, property 
    manager, or landlord pending completion of the dispute resolution 
    process.
        ``(16) The right to have reasonable, advance notice of any 
    entrance by a landlord, installation housing staff, or chain of 
    command into the housing unit, except in the case of an emergency 
    or abandonment of the housing unit.
        ``(17) The right to not pay non-refundable fees or have 
    application of rent credits arbitrarily held.
        ``(18) The right to expect common documents, forms, and 
    processes for housing units will be the same for all installations 
    of the Department, to the maximum extent applicable without 
    violating local, State, and Federal regulations.
    ``(c) Elements of Tenant Responsibilities.--At a minimum, the 
Military Housing Privatization Initiative Tenant Responsibilities shall 
address the following responsibilities of tenants of housing units:
        ``(1) The responsibility to report in a timely manner any 
    apparent environmental, safety, or health hazards of the housing 
    unit to the landlord and any defective, broken, damaged, or 
    malfunctioning building systems, fixtures, appliances, or other 
    parts of the housing unit, the common areas, or related facilities.
        ``(2) The responsibility to maintain standard upkeep of the 
    housing unit as instructed by the housing management office.
        ``(3) The responsibility to conduct oneself as a tenant in a 
    manner that will not disturb neighbors, and to assume 
    responsibility for one's actions and those of a family member or 
    guest in the housing unit or common areas.
        ``(4) The responsibility not to engage in any inappropriate, 
    unauthorized, or criminal activity in the housing unit or common 
    areas.
        ``(5) The responsibility to allow the landlord reasonable 
    access to the rental home in accordance with the terms of the 
    tenant lease agreement to allow the landlord to make necessary 
    repairs in a timely manner.
        ``(6) The responsibility to read all lease-related materials 
    provided by the landlord and to comply with the terms of the lease 
    agreement, lease addenda, and any associated rules and guidelines.
    ``(d) Submission to Congress and Public Availability.--(1) As part 
of the budget submission for fiscal year 2021, and biennially 
thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit the then-current 
housing documents to the congressional defense committees.
    ``(2) Any change made to a housing document must be submitted to 
Congress at least 30 days before the change takes effect.
    ``(3) Upon submission of a housing document under paragraph (1) or 
(2), the Secretary of Defense shall publish the housing document on a 
publicly available Internet website of the Department of Defense.''.
    (c) Clerical Amendments.--
        (1) Table of sections.--Subchapter V of chapter 169 of title 
    10, United States Code, as added by subsection (b), is amended by 
    inserting after the subchapter heading the following table of 
    sections:

Sec.
2890. Rights and responsibilities of tenants of housing units.
2890a. Chief Housing Officer.
2891. Requirements relating to contracts for provision of housing units.
2891a. Requirements relating to management of housing units.
2891b. Considerations of eligible entity housing history in contracts 
          for privatized military housing.
2891c. Financial transparency.
2892. Maintenance work order system for housing units.
2892a. Access by tenants to historical maintenance information.
2892b. Prohibition on requirement to disclose personally identifiable 
          information in electronic requests for maintenance.
2893. Treatment of incentive fees for landlords of housing units for 
          failure to remedy health or environmental hazards.
2894.  Landlord-tenant dispute resolution process and treatment of 
          certain payments during process.
2894a. Complaint database.

        (2) Table of subchapters.--The table of subchapters at the 
    beginning of chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by inserting after the item relating to subchapter IV the 
    following new item:

``V. Oversight of Landlords and Protections and Responsibilities 
for Tenants of Privatized Military Housing......................2890.''.

SEC. 3012. DESIGNATION OF CHIEF HOUSING OFFICER FOR PRIVATIZED MILITARY 
HOUSING.
    (a) Designation Required.--Subchapter V of chapter 169 of title 10, 
United States Code, as added by section 3011, is amended by inserting 
after section 2890 of such title, as added by section 3011 and amended 
by sections 3023 and 3024, the following new section:
``Sec. 2890a. Chief Housing Officer
    ``(a) Designation.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall designate, 
from among officials of the Department of Defense who are appointed by 
the President with the advice and consent of the Senate, a Chief 
Housing Officer who shall oversee housing units.
    ``(2) The official of the Department of Defense designated as Chief 
Housing Officer may be assigned duties in addition to the duties as 
Chief Housing Officer under subsection (b).
    ``(b) Principal Duties.--(1) The Chief Housing Officer shall 
oversee all aspects of the provision of housing under subchapter IV and 
this subchapter, including the following:
        ``(A) Creation and standardization of policies and processes 
    regarding housing units.
        ``(B) Oversight of the administration of any Department of 
    Defense-wide policies regarding housing units, to include, in 
    coordination with the Secretaries of the military departments, the 
    housing documents developed pursuant to section 2890 of this title 
    entitled Military Housing Privatization Initiative Tenant Bill of 
    Rights and Military Housing Privatization Initiative Tenant 
    Responsibilities.
    ``(2) The duties specified in paragraph (1) may not be further 
delegated.''.
    (b) Notification of Designation.--Not later than 60 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
notify the congressional defense committees of the official of the 
Department of Defense designated as Chief Housing Officer under section 
2890a of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a). Any 
time the designation of Chief Housing Officer changes, the Secretary of 
Defense shall update the notification of the congressional defense 
committees within 30 days after the new designation.
SEC. 3013. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO CONTRACTS FOR PRIVATIZED 
MILITARY HOUSING.
    (a) In General.--Subchapter V of chapter 169 of title 10, United 
States Code, as added by section 3011, is amended by inserting after 
section 2890a of such title, as added by section 3012, the following 
new section:
``Sec. 2891. Requirements relating to contracts for provision of 
    housing units
    ``(a) In General.--The requirements of this section condition 
contracts entered into using the authorities provided to the Secretary 
concerned under section 2872 of this title and other authorities 
provided under subchapter IV of this chapter and this subchapter.
    ``(b) Exclusion of Certain Employees.--A landlord providing a 
housing unit shall prohibit any employee of the landlord who commits 
work-order fraud under the contract from doing any work under the 
contract.
    ``(c) Dispute Resolution Process.--Any decision the commander 
renders in favor of the tenant in the formal dispute resolution process 
established pursuant to section 2894 of this title will be taken into 
consideration in determining whether to pay or withhold all or part of 
any incentive fees for which a landlord may otherwise be eligible under 
the contract.
    ``(d) Responsibility for Certain Medical Costs.--
        ``(1) Reimbursement required under certain circumstances.--If 
    the Secretary concerned finds that a landlord fails to maintain 
    safe and sanitary conditions for a housing unit under the contract 
    and that, subject to paragraph (2), these conditions result in a 
    tenant of the housing unit receiving medical evaluations and 
    treatment, the landlord shall be responsible for reimbursing the 
    Department of Defense for any costs incurred by the Department to 
    provide the medical evaluations and treatment to the tenant, 
    whether such evaluations and treatment are provided in a military 
    medical treatment facility or through the TRICARE provider network.
        ``(2) Review process.--Before the Secretary concerned may 
    submit a claim under paragraph (1) to a landlord for reimbursement 
    of Department medical evaluation and treatment costs--
            ``(A) a military medical professional must determine that 
        the tenant's medical conditions were caused by unsafe and 
        unsanitary conditions of the housing unit; and
            ``(B) the documentation of the medical evaluation showing 
        causation must be sent to the Director of the Defense Health 
        Agency for review and approval.
        ``(3) Uniform processes and procedures.--Not later than 180 
    days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Director 
    of the Defense Health Agency shall develop and publish uniform 
    processes and procedures to be used by medical providers in 
    military medical treatment facilities to make determinations 
    regarding whether environmental hazards within housing units serve 
    as causative factors for medical conditions being evaluated and 
    treated in military medical treatment facilities or through the 
    TRICARE provider network.
    ``(e) Responsibility for Relocation Costs.--
        ``(1) Permanent relocation.--A landlord providing a housing 
    unit shall pay reasonable relocation costs associated with the 
    permanent relocation of a tenant from the housing unit to a 
    different housing due to health or environmental hazards--
            ``(A) present in the housing unit being vacated through no 
        fault of the tenant; and
            ``(B) confirmed by the housing management office of the 
        installation for which the housing unit is provided as making 
        the unit uninhabitable or unable to be remediated safely while 
        tenant occupies the housing unit.
        ``(2) Temporary relocation.--The landlord shall pay reasonable 
    relocation costs and actual costs of living, including per diem, 
    associated with the temporary relocation of a tenant to a different 
    housing unit due to health or environmental hazards--
            ``(A) present in the housing unit being vacated through no 
        fault of the tenant; and
            ``(B) confirmed by the housing management office of the 
        installation as making the unit uninhabitable or unable to be 
        remediated safely while tenant occupies the housing unit.
    ``(f) Maintenance Work Order System.--A landlord providing a 
housing unit shall ensure that the maintenance work order system of the 
landlord (hardware and software) is up to date, including--
        ``(1) by providing a reliable mechanism through which a tenant 
    may submit work order requests through an Internet portal and 
    mobile application, which shall incorporate the ability to upload 
    photos, communicate with maintenance personnel, and rate individual 
    service calls;
        ``(2) by allowing real-time access to such system by officials 
    of the Department at the installation, major subordinate command, 
    and service-wide levels; and
        ``(3) by allowing the work order or maintenance ticket to be 
    closed only once the tenant and the head of the housing management 
    office of the installation sign off.
    ``(g) Implementation.--The Secretary concerned shall create such 
legal documents as may be necessary to carry out this section.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The requirements set forth in section 2891 of 
title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply 
to appropriate legal documents entered into or renewed on or after the 
date of the enactment of this Act between the Secretary of a military 
department and a landlord regarding privatized military housing.
    (c) Retroactive Landlord Agreements.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than February 1, 2020, the Secretary 
    of Defense shall seek agreement from all landlords to accept the 
    application of the requirements set forth in section 2891 of title 
    10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), to appropriate 
    legal documents entered into or renewed before the date of the 
    enactment of this Act between the Secretary of a military 
    department and a landlord regarding privatized military housing
        (2) Submittal of list to congress.--Not later than March 1, 
    2020, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
    defense committees a list of any landlords that did not agree under 
    paragraph (1) to accept the requirements set forth in section 2891 
    of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a).
        (3) Consideration of lack of agreement in future contracts.--
    The Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of the military 
    departments shall include any lack of agreement under paragraph (1) 
    as past performance considered under section 2891b of title 10, 
    United States Code, as added by section 3015,with respect to 
    entering into or renewing any future contracts regarding privatized 
    military housing.
SEC. 3014. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO MANAGEMENT OF PRIVATIZED 
MILITARY HOUSING.
    (a) In General.--Subchapter V of chapter 169 of title 10, United 
States Code, as added by section 3011, is amended by inserting after 
section 2891 of such title, as added by section 3013, the following new 
section:
``Sec. 2891a. Requirements relating to management of housing units
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that each 
contract between the Secretary concerned and a landlord regarding the 
management of housing units for an installation of the Department of 
Defense includes the requirements set forth in this section.
    ``(b) Requirements for Installation Commanders.--(1) The 
installation commander shall be responsible for--
        ``(A) reviewing, on an annual basis, the mold mitigation plan 
    and pest control plan of each landlord managing housing units for 
    the installation; and
        ``(B) notifying the landlord and the major subordinate command 
    of any deficiencies found in either plan.
    ``(2) In response to a request by the head of the housing 
management office of an installation, the installation commander shall 
use the assigned bio-environmental personnel or contractor equivalent 
at the installation to test housing units for mold, unsafe water 
conditions, and other health and safety conditions
    ``(c) Requirements for Housing Management Office.--(1) The head of 
the housing management office of an installation shall be responsible 
for--
        ``(A) conducting a physical inspection of, and approving the 
    habitability of, a vacant housing unit for the installation before 
    the landlord managing the housing unit is authorized to offer the 
    housing unit available for occupancy;
        ``(B) conducting a physical inspection of the housing unit upon 
    tenant move-out; and
        ``(C) maintaining all test results relating to the health, 
    environmental, and safety condition of the housing unit and the 
    results of any inspection conducted by the housing management 
    office, landlord, or third-party contractor for the life of the 
    contract relating to that housing unit.
    ``(2) The head of the installation housing management office shall 
be provided a list of any move-out charges that a landlord seeks to 
collect from an outgoing tenant.
    ``(3) The head of the installation housing management office shall 
initiate contact with a tenant regarding the satisfaction of the tenant 
with the housing unit of the tenant not later than--
        ``(A) 15 days after move-in; and
        ``(B) 60 days after move-in.
    ``(d) Requirements for Landlords.--(1) The landlord providing a 
housing unit shall disclose to the Secretary of Defense any bonus 
structures offered for community managers and regional executives and 
any bonus structures relating to maintenance of housing units, in order 
to minimize the impact of those incentives on the operating budget of 
the installation for which the housing units are provided.
    ``(2) With respect to test results relating to the health and 
safety condition of a housing unit, the landlord providing the housing 
unit shall--
        ``(A) not later than three days after receiving the test 
    results, share the results with the tenant of the housing unit and 
    submit the results to the head of the installation housing 
    management office; and
        ``(B) include with any environmental hazard test results a 
    simple guide explaining those results, preferably citing standards 
    set forth by the Federal Government relating to environmental 
    hazards.
    ``(3) Before a prospective tenant signs a lease to occupy a housing 
unit, the landlord providing the housing unit shall conduct a 
walkthrough inspection of the housing unit--
        ``(A) for the prospective tenant; or
        ``(B) if the prospective tenant is not able to be present for 
    the inspection, with an official of the housing management office 
    designated by the prospective tenant to conduct the inspection on 
    the tenant's behalf.
    ``(4) In the event that the installation housing management office 
determines that a housing unit does not meet minimum health, safety, 
and welfare standards set forth in Federal, State, and local law as a 
result of a walkthrough inspection or an inspection conducted under 
subsection (c), the landlord providing the housing unit shall remediate 
any issues and make any appropriate repairs to the satisfaction of the 
housing management office and subject to another inspection by the 
housing management office.
    ``(5) A landlord providing a housing unit may not conduct any 
promotional events to encourage tenants to fill out maintenance comment 
cards or satisfaction surveys of any kind, without the approval of the 
chief of the housing management office.
    ``(6) A landlord providing a housing unit may not award an 
installation of the Department of Defense or an officer or employee of 
the Department a `Partner of the Year award' or similar award.
    ``(7) A landlord providing a housing unit may not enter into any 
form of settlement, nondisclosure, or release of liability agreement 
with a tenant without--
        ``(A) first notifying the tenant of the tenant's right to 
    assistance from the legal assistance office at the installation; 
    and
        ``(B) not later than five days before entering into such 
    settlement, nondisclosure, or release of liability agreement, 
    providing a copy of the agreement and terms to the Assistant 
    Secretary of Defense for Sustainment.
    ``(8) A landlord providing a housing unit may not change the 
position of a prospective tenant on a waiting list for a housing unit 
or remove a prospective tenant from the waiting list in response to the 
prospective tenant turning down an offer for a housing unit, if the 
housing unit is determined unsatisfactory by the prospective tenant and 
the determination is confirmed by the housing management office and the 
installation commander.
    ``(9) A landlord providing a housing unit shall allow employees of 
the housing management office and other officers and employees of the 
Department to conduct--
        ``(A) with the permission of the tenant of the housing unit as 
    appropriate, physical inspections of the housing unit; and
        ``(B) physical inspections of any common areas maintained by 
    the landlord.
    ``(10) A landlord providing a housing unit shall agree to 
participate in the dispute resolution and payment-withholding processes 
established pursuant to section 2894 of this title.
    ``(11) A landlord providing a housing unit shall ensure that the 
needs of enrollees in the Exceptional Family Member Program, or any 
successor program, are considered in assigning prospective tenants to 
housing units provided by the landlord.
    ``(12) A landlord providing a housing unit shall maintain an 
electronic work order system that enables access by the tenant to view 
work order history, status, and other relevant information, as required 
by section 2892 of this title.
    ``(13) A landlord providing a housing unit shall agree to have any 
agreements or forms to be used by the landlord approved by the 
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Sustainment, including the 
following:
        ``(A) A common lease agreement.
        ``(B) Any disclosure or nondisclosure forms that could be given 
    to a tenant.
    ``(e) Prohibition Against Collection of Amounts in Addition to 
Rent.--(1) A landlord providing a housing unit may not impose on a 
tenant of the housing unit a supplemental payment, such as an out-of-
pocket fee, in addition to the amount of rent the landlord charges for 
a unit of similar size and composition to the housing unit, without 
regard to whether or not the amount of the any basic allowance for 
housing under section 403 of title 37 the tenant may receive as a 
member of the armed forces is less than the amount of the rent.
    ``(2) Nothing in paragraph (1) shall be construed--
        ``(A) to prohibit a landlord from imposing an additional 
    payment--
            ``(i) for optional services provided to military tenants, 
        such as access to a gym or a parking space;
            ``(ii) for non-essential utility services, as determined in 
        accordance with regulations promulgated by the Secretary 
        concerned; or
            ``(iii) to recover damages associated with tenant 
        negligence, consistent with subsection (c)(2); or
        ``(B) to limit or otherwise affect the authority of the 
    Secretary concerned to enter into rental guarantee agreements under 
    section 2876 of this title or to make differential lease payments 
    under section 2877 of this title, so long as such agreements or 
    payments do not require a tenant to pay an out-of-pocket fee or 
    payment in addition to the amount of the any basic allowance for 
    housing under section 403 of title 37 the tenant may receive as a 
    member of the armed forces.''.
    (b) Military Department Implementation Plans.--Not later than 
February 1, 2020, the Secretary of each military department shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a plan for the 
implementation by that military department of section 2891a of title 
10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a).
    (c) Effective Date.--The requirements set forth in section 2891a of 
title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply 
to appropriate legal documents entered into or renewed on or after the 
date of the enactment of this Act between the Secretary of a military 
department and a landlord regarding privatized military housing.
    (d) Repeal of Replaced Provision.--
        (1) Repeal.--Section 2886 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    repealed.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking the item relating to section 2886.
    (e) Retroactive Landlord Agreements.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than February 1, 2020, the Secretary 
    of Defense shall seek agreement from all landlords to accept the 
    application of the requirements set forth in section 2891a of title 
    10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), to appropriate 
    legal documents entered into or renewed before the date of the 
    enactment of this Act between the Secretary of a military 
    department and a landlord regarding privatized military housing
        (2) Submittal of list to congress.--Not later than March 1, 
    2020, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
    defense committees a list of any landlords that did not agree under 
    paragraph (1) to accept the requirements set forth in section 2891a 
    of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a).
        (3) Consideration of lack of agreement in future contracts.--
    The Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of the military 
    departments shall include any lack of agreement under paragraph (1) 
    as past performance considered under section 2891b of title 10, 
    United States Code, as added by section 3015, with respect to 
    entering into or renewing any future contracts regarding privatized 
    military housing.
SEC. 3015. CONSIDERATION OF CONTRACTOR HISTORY IN CONTRACTS FOR 
PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.
    Subchapter V of chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, as 
added by section 3011, is amended by inserting after section 2891a of 
such title, as added by section 3014, the following new section:
``Sec. 2891b. Considerations of eligible entity housing history in 
     contracts for privatized military housing
    ``(a) Consideration Required.--To assist in making a determination 
whether to enter into a new contract, or renew an existing contract, 
with an eligible entity, the Secretary of Defense shall develop a 
standard process by which the Secretary concerned may evaluate the past 
performance of the eligible entity for purposes of informing future 
decisions regarding the award of such a contract.
    ``(b) Elements of Process.--The process developed under subsection 
(a) shall include, at a minimum, consideration of the following:
        ``(1) Any history of the eligible entity of providing 
    substandard housing.
        ``(2) The recommendation of the commander of the installation 
    for which housing units will be provided under the contract.
        ``(3) The recommendation of the commander of any other 
    installation for which the eligible entity has provided housing 
    units.''.
SEC. 3016. ADDITIONAL IMPROVEMENTS FOR MANAGEMENT OF PRIVATIZED 
MILITARY HOUSING.
    (a) Improved Financial Transparency.--Subchapter V of chapter 169 
of title 10, United States Code, as added by section 3011, is amended 
by inserting after section 2891b of such title, as added by section 
3015, the following new section:
``Sec. 2891c. Financial transparency
    ``(a) Submission of Landlord Financial Information.--(1) Not less 
frequently than annually, the Secretary of Defense shall require that 
each landlord submit to the Secretary a report providing information 
regarding all housing units provided by the landlord.
    ``(2) Information provided under paragraph (1) by a landlord shall 
include the following:
        ``(A) A comprehensive summary of the landlord's financial 
    performance.
        ``(B) The amount of base management fees relating to all 
    housing units provided by the landlord.
        ``(C) The amount of asset management fees relating to such 
    housing units.
        ``(D) The amount of preferred return fees relating to such 
    housing units.
        ``(E) The residual cashflow distributions relating to such 
    housing units.
        ``(F) The amount of deferred fees or other fees relating to 
    such housing units.
    ``(3) In this subsection:
        ``(A) The term `base management fees' means the monthly 
    management fees collected for services associated with accepting 
    and processing rent payments, ensuring tenant rent payments, 
    property inspections, maintenance management, and emergency 
    maintenance calls.
        ``(B) the term `asset management fees' means fees paid to 
    manage a housing unit for the purpose of ensuring the housing unit 
    is maintained in good condition and making repairs over the 
    lifecycle of the housing unit.
        ``(C) the term `preferred return fees' means fees associated 
    with any claims on profits furnished to preferred investors with an 
    interest in the housing unit.
        ``(D) the term `residual cashflow distribution' means the steps 
    a specific housing project takes to restructure after it is 
    determined that the project is in an unacceptable financial 
    condition.
        ``(E) the term `deferred fee' means any fee that was not paid 
    to a person in a calendar year in order to meet other financial 
    obligations of the landlord.
    ``(b) Availability of Information on Use of Incentive Fees.--(1) 
Not less frequently than annually, the Secretary of Defense shall 
publish, on a publicly accessible website, information regarding the 
use by the Secretary concerned of incentive fees to support contracts 
for the provision or management of housing units.
    ``(2) The information provided under paragraph (1) shall include, 
with respect to each contract, the following:
        ``(A) The applicable incentive fees.
        ``(B) The metrics used to determine the incentive fees.
        ``(C) Whether incentive fees were paid in full, or were 
    withheld in part or in full, during the period covered by the 
    release of information.
        ``(D) If any incentive fees were withheld, the reasons for such 
    withholding.''.
    (b) Establishment and Availability of Complaint Database.--
Subchapter V of chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, as added 
by section 3011, is amended by inserting after section 2894 of such 
title, as added by section 3022, the following new section:
``Sec. 2894a. Complaint database
    ``(a) Database Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish 
a database of complaints made regarding housing units.
    ``(b) Public Availability.--The database shall be available to the 
public.
    ``(c) Inclusion of Tenant Complaints.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall permit a tenant of a housing unit to file a complaint regarding 
the housing unit for inclusion in the database.
    ``(d) Inclusion of Certain Information.--(1) Information accessible 
in the database regarding a complaint shall include the following:
        ``(A) The name of the installation for which the housing unit 
    is provided.
        ``(B) The name of the landlord responsible for the housing 
    unit.
        ``(C) A description of the nature of the complaint.
    ``(2) The Secretary of Defense may not disclose personally 
identifiable information through the database.
    ``(e) Response by Landlords.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall 
include in any contract with a landlord responsible for a housing unit 
a requirement that the landlord respond in a timely manner to any 
complaints included in the database that relate to the housing unit.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall include landlord responses in the 
database.''.
    (c) Audits of Financial Viability of Privatized Military Housing 
Partnerships.--
        (1) Audits required.--The Comptroller General of the United 
    States, in accordance with best audit practices, shall conduct an 
    audit of the financial viability of each partnership for the 
    provision of privatized military housing that the Comptroller 
    General determines were impacted by extreme weather events or other 
    natural disasters occurring during the 36-month period immediately 
    preceding the date of the enactment of this Act.
        (2) Required information.--The audit under paragraph (1) shall 
    assess the following:
            (A) The appropriateness of existing insurance caps 
        contained in contracts for privatized military housing.
            (B) The structure of the cashflow waterfall, including the 
        impact of expenses relating to disaster recovery.
        (3) Submission to congress.--Not later than February 1, 2021, 
    the Comptroller General shall submit to the Secretary of Defense 
    and the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
    Representatives a report containing the results of the audit 
    conducted under paragraph (1).
    (d) Additional Information in Congressional Reports on Privatized 
Military Housing.--Section 2884(c) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(7) An assessment of the condition of housing units based on 
    the average age of those units and the estimated time until 
    recapitalization.
        ``(8) An assessment of tenant complaints.
        ``(9) An assessment of maintenance response times and 
    completion of maintenance requests.
        ``(10) An assessment of the dispute resolution process, which 
    shall include a specific analysis of each denied tenant request to 
    withhold rent payments and each instance in which the dispute 
    resolution process resulted in a favorable outcome for the 
    landlord.
        ``(11) An assessment of overall customer service for tenants.
        ``(12) A description of the results of any no-notice housing 
    inspections conducted.
        ``(13) The results of any resident surveys conducted.
        ``(14) With regard to issues of lead-based paint in housing 
    units, a summary of data relating to the presence of lead-based 
    paint in such housing units, including the following by military 
    department:
            ``(A) The total number of housing units containing lead-
        based paint.
            ``(B) A description of the reasons for the failure to 
        inspect any housing unit that contains lead-based paint.
            ``(C) A description of all abatement or mitigation efforts 
        completed or underway in housing units containing lead-based 
        paint.
            ``(D) A certification as to whether military housing under 
        the jurisdiction of the Secretary concerned complies with 
        requirements relating to lead-based paint, lead-based paint 
        activities, and lead-based paint hazards, as described in 
        section 408 of the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 
        2688).''.
SEC. 3017. MAINTENANCE WORK ORDER SYSTEM FOR PRIVATIZED MILITARY 
HOUSING.
    Subchapter V of chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, as 
added by section 3011, is amended by inserting after section 2891c of 
such title, as added by section 3016(a), the following new section:
``Sec. 2892. Maintenance work order system for housing units
    ``(a) Electronic Work Order System Required.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall require that each landlord of a housing unit have an 
electronic work order system to track all maintenance requests relating 
to the housing unit.
    ``(b) Access by Department Personnel.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall require each landlord of a housing unit to provide access to the 
maintenance work order system of the landlord relating to the housing 
unit to the following persons:
        ``(1) Personnel of the housing management office at the 
    installation for which the housing unit is provided.
        ``(2) Personnel of the installation and engineer command or 
    center of the military department concerned.
        ``(3) Such other personnel of the Department of Defense as the 
    Secretary determines necessary.''.
SEC. 3018. ACCESS BY TENANTS OF PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING TO 
MAINTENANCE WORK ORDER SYSTEM.
    Section 2892 of title 10, United States Code, as added by section 
3017, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Access by Tenants.--The Secretary of Defense shall require 
each landlord of a housing unit to provide access to the maintenance 
work order system of the landlord relating to the housing unit to the 
tenant of the housing unit to permit the tenant, at a minimum, to track 
the status and progress of work orders for maintenance requests 
relating to the housing unit.''.
SEC. 3019. ACCESS BY TENANTS TO HISTORICAL MAINTENANCE INFORMATION FOR 
PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.
    Subchapter V of chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, as 
added by section 3011, is amended by inserting after section 2892, as 
added by section 3017 and amended by section 3018, the following new 
section:
``Sec. 2892a. Access by tenants to historical maintenance information
    ``The Secretary concerned shall require each eligible entity or 
subsequent landlord that offers for lease a housing unit to provide to 
a prospective tenant of the housing unit, before the prospective tenant 
moves into the housing unit as a tenant, all information regarding 
maintenance conducted with respect to that housing unit for the 
previous seven years. In this section, the term `maintenance' includes 
any renovations of the housing unit during such period.''.
SEC. 3020. PROHIBITION ON REQUIREMENT TO DISCLOSE PERSONALLY 
IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION IN CERTAIN REQUESTS FOR MAINTENANCE OF 
PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.
    (a) In General.--Subchapter V of chapter 169 of title 10, United 
States Code, as added by section 3011, is amended by inserting after 
section 2892a of such title, as added by section 3019, the following 
new section:
``Sec. 2892b. Prohibition on requirement to disclose personally 
     identifiable information in requests for certain maintenance
    ``A landlord responsible for a housing unit may not require the 
disclosure of personally identifiable information as a part of the 
submission of a request for maintenance regarding a housing unit or 
common area when the disclosure of personally identifiable information 
is not needed to identify the location at which such maintenance will 
be performed.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The prohibition in section 2892b of title 10, 
United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall take effect on 
the date that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 3021. TREATMENT OF INCENTIVE FEES FOR LANDLORDS OF PRIVATIZED 
MILITARY HOUSING FOR FAILURE TO REMEDY A HEALTH OR ENVIRONMENTAL 
HAZARD.
    Subchapter V of chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, as 
added by section 3011, is amended by inserting after section 2892b of 
such title, as added by section 3020, the following new section:
``Sec. 2893. Treatment of incentive fees for landlords of housing units 
    for failure to remedy health or environmental hazards
    ``The Secretary concerned shall not approve the payment of 
incentive fees otherwise authorized to be paid to a landlord that the 
Secretary determines has demonstrated a propensity for failing to 
remedy, or failing to remedy in a timely manner, a health or 
environmental hazard at a housing unit provided by the landlord.''.
SEC. 3022. DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCESS FOR LANDLORD-TENANT DISPUTES 
REGARDING PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING AND REQUESTS TO WITHHOLD PAYMENTS 
DURING DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCESS.
    (a) In General.--Subchapter V of chapter 169 of title 10, United 
States Code, as added by section 3011, is amended by inserting after 
section 2893 of such title, as added by section 3021, the following new 
section:
``Sec. 2894. Landlord-tenant dispute resolution process and treatment 
    of certain payments during process
    ``(a) Process Required; Purpose.--The Secretary concerned shall 
implement a standardized formal dispute resolution process to ensure 
the prompt and fair resolution of disputes that arise between landlords 
providing housing units and tenants residing in housing units 
concerning maintenance and repairs, damage claims, rental payments, 
move-out charges, and such other issues relating to housing units as 
the Secretary determines appropriate.
    ``(b) Process Elements.--(1) The dispute resolution process shall 
include the process by which a tenant may request that certain payments 
otherwise authorized to be paid to a landlord are withheld, as provided 
in subsection (e).
    ``(2) The process shall designate the installation or regional 
commander in charge of oversight of housing units as the deciding 
authority under the dispute resolution process.
    ``(3) The Secretary concerned shall establish a standardized 
mechanism and forms by which a tenant of a housing unit may submit, 
through online or other means, a request for resolution of a landlord-
tenant dispute through the dispute resolution process.
    ``(4) The Secretary shall ensure that, in preparing a request 
described in paragraph (3), a tenant has access to advice and 
assistance from a military housing advocate employed by the military 
department concerned or a military legal assistance attorney under 
section 1044 of this title.
    ``(5) The Secretary concerned shall minimize costs to tenants for 
participation in the dispute resolution process.
    ``(c) Resolution Process.--(1) Not later than 24 hours after 
receiving a request from a tenant for resolution of a landlord-tenant 
dispute through the dispute resolution process, the Secretary concerned 
shall--
        ``(A) notify the tenant that the request has been received;
        ``(B) transmit a copy of the request to the installation or 
    regional commander (as the case may be), housing management office 
    responsible for the housing unit, and the landlord of the housing 
    unit; and
        ``(C) if the request includes a request to withhold payments 
    under subsection (e),initiate the process under such subsection.
    ``(2) For purposes of conducting an assessment necessary to render 
a decision under the dispute resolution process, both the landlord and 
representatives of the installation housing management office may 
access the housing unit at a time and for a duration mutually agreed 
upon amongst the parties.
    ``(3) Not later than seven days after the date on which the request 
was received by the installation housing management office shall 
complete an investigation that includes a physical inspection and 
transmit the results of the investigation to the installation or 
regional commander (as the case may be).
    ``(4) Before making any decision with respect to a dispute under 
the dispute resolution process, the commander shall certify that the 
commander has solicited recommendations or information relating to the 
dispute from the following persons:
        ``(A) The chief of the installation housing management office.
        ``(B) A representative of the landlord for the housing unit.
        ``(C) The tenant submitting the request for dispute resolution.
        ``(D) A qualified judge advocate or civilian attorney who is a 
    Federal employee.
        ``(E) If the dispute involves maintenance or another 
    facilities-related matter, a civil engineer.
    ``(5)(A) The commander shall make a decision with respect to a 
request under the dispute resolution process not later than 30 days 
after the request was submitted.
    ``(B) The commander may take longer than such 30-day period in 
limited circumstances as determined by the Secretary of Defense, but in 
no case shall such a decision be made more than 60 days after the 
request was submitted.
    ``(6) A final decision will be transmitted to the tenant and 
landlord no later than 30 days from initial receipt by the office of 
the commander, except as provided in paragraph (5)(B).
    ``(7) The decision shall include instructions for distribution of 
any funds that were withheld under subsection (e) and such instructions 
for the landlord for further remediation as the commander considers 
necessary.
    ``(8) The decision by the commander under this subsection shall be 
final.
    ``(d) Effect of Failure to Comply With Decision.--If the landlord 
responsible for the housing unit does not remediate the issues in a 
manner consistent with the instructions contained in the decision 
rendered under subsection (c) and within a reasonable period of time, 
as provided in the decision, any amounts payable to the landlord for 
the housing unit shall be reduced by 10 percent for each period of five 
days during which the issues remain unremediated.
    ``(e) Request to Withhold Payments During Resolution Process.--(1) 
As part of the submission of a request for resolution of a landlord-
tenant dispute through the dispute resolution process, the tenant may 
request that all or part of the payments described in paragraph (2) for 
lease of the housing unit be withheld from the landlord of the housing 
unit during the period in which--
        ``(A) the landlord has not met maintenance guidelines and 
    procedures established by the Department of Defense, either through 
    contract or otherwise; or
        ``(B) the housing unit is uninhabitable according to State and 
    local law for the jurisdiction in which the housing unit is 
    located.
    ``(2) Paragraph (1) applies to the following:
        ``(A) Any basic allowance for housing payable to the tenant 
    (including for any dependents of the tenant in the tenant's 
    household) under section 403 of title 37.
        ``(B) All or part of any pay of a tenant subject to allotment 
    as described in section 2882(c) of this title.
    ``(3) Upon the submission of a request by a tenant under this 
subsection and under such procedures as the Secretary of Defense shall 
establish, the Defense Finance and Accounting Service or such other 
appropriate office of the Department of Defense as the Secretary shall 
specify for purposes of such procedures, shall tentatively grant the 
request and hold any amounts withheld in escrow with notice to the 
landlord until the conclusion of the dispute resolution process.
    ``(f) Disclosure of Rights.--(1) Each housing management office of 
the Department of Defense shall disclose in writing to each new tenant 
of a housing unit, upon the signing of the lease for the housing unit, 
the tenant's rights under this section and the procedures under this 
section for submitting a request for resolution of a landlord-tenant 
dispute through the dispute resolution process, including the ability 
to submit a request to withhold payments during the resolution process.
    ``(2) The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that each lease entered 
into with a tenant for a housing unit clearly expresses, in a separate 
addendum, the dispute resolution procedures.
    ``(g) Rule of Construction on Use of Other Adjudicative Bodies.--
Nothing in this section or any other provision of law shall be 
construed to prohibit a tenant of a housing unit from pursuing a claim 
against a landlord in any adjudicative body with jurisdiction over the 
housing unit or the claim.''.
    (b) Modification of Definition of Military Legal Assistance.--
Section 1044(d)(3)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``and 1565b(a)(1)(A)'' and inserting ``1565b(a)(1)(A), and 
2894(b)(4)''.
    (c) Timing of Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
establish the dispute resolution process required under section 2894 of 
title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a).
    (d) Landlord Agreements.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than February 1, 2020, the Secretary 
    of Defense shall seek agreement from all landlords to participate 
    in the dispute resolution and payment-withholding processes 
    required under section 2894 of title 10, United States Code, as 
    added by subsection (a).
        (2) Submittal of list to congress.--Not later than March 1, 
    2020, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
    defense committees a list of any landlords that did not agree under 
    paragraph (1) to participate in the dispute resolution and payment-
    withholding processes.
        (3) Consideration of lack of agreement in future contracts.--
    The Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of the military 
    departments shall include any lack of agreement under paragraph (1) 
    as past performance considered under section 2891b of title 10, 
    United States Code, as added by section 3015,with respect to 
    entering into or renewing any future contracts regarding privatized 
    military housing.
SEC. 3023. INVESTIGATION OF REPORTS OF REPRISALS RELATING TO PRIVATIZED 
MILITARY HOUSING AND CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION.
    Section 2890 of title 10, United States Code, as added by section 
3011, is amended by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
subsection:
    ``(e) Investigation of Reports of Reprisals.--(1) The Assistant 
Secretary of Defense for Sustainment shall investigate all reports of 
reprisal against a member of the armed forces for reporting an issue 
relating to a housing unit.
    ``(2) If the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Sustainment 
determines under paragraph (1) that landlord has retaliated against a 
member of the armed forces for reporting an issue relating to a housing 
unit, the Assistant Secretary shall--
        ``(A) provide initial notice to the Committees on Armed 
    Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives as soon as 
    practicable after making that determination; and
        ``(B) following that initial notice, provide an update to such 
    committees every 30 days thereafter until such time as the 
    Assistant Secretary has taken final action with respect to the 
    retaliation.
    ``(3) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Sustainment shall 
carry out this subsection in coordination with the Secretary of the 
military department concerned.''.
SEC. 3024. PROHIBITION ON USE OF NONDISCLOSURE AGREEMENTS IN CONNECTION 
WITH LEASES OF PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.
    (a) Nondisclosure Agreements Prohibited.--Section 2890 of title 10, 
United States Code, as added by section 3011, is amended by inserting 
after subsection (e), as added by section 3023, the following new 
subsection:
    ``(f) Prohibition on Use of Nondisclosure Agreements.--(1) A tenant 
or prospective tenant of a housing unit may not be required to sign a 
nondisclosure agreement in connection with entering into, continuing, 
or terminating a lease for the housing unit. Any such agreement against 
the interests of the tenant is invalid.
    ``(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a nondisclosure agreement 
executed as part of the settlement of litigation.''.
    (b) Implementation.--The Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries 
of the military departments shall promulgate such regulations as may be 
necessary to give full force and effect to subsection (f) of section 
2890 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a).
    (c) Retroactive Application of Amendment.--Subsection (f) of 
section 2890 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection 
(a), shall apply with respect to any nondisclosure agreement covered by 
the terms of such subsection (f) regardless of the date on which the 
agreement was executed.

                Subtitle B--Other Amendatory Provisions

SEC. 3031. INSTALLATION OF CARBON MONOXIDE DETECTORS IN MILITARY FAMILY 
HOUSING.
    Section 2821 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) The Secretary concerned shall provide for the installation 
and maintenance of an appropriate number of carbon monoxide detectors 
in each unit of military family housing under the jurisdiction of the 
Secretary.''.
SEC. 3032. AUTHORITY TO FURNISH CERTAIN SERVICES IN CONNECTION WITH USE 
OF ALTERNATIVE AUTHORITY FOR ACQUISITION AND IMPROVEMENT OF MILITARY 
HOUSING.
    Section 2872a(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(13) Street sweeping.
        ``(14) Tree trimming and removal.''.
SEC. 3033. TREATMENT OF BREACH OF CONTRACT FOR PRIVATIZED MILITARY 
HOUSING.
    (a) In General.--Subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 2872a the following 
new section:
``Sec. 2872b. Treatment of breach of contract
    ``(a) Response to Material Breach.--In the case of a material 
breach of contract under this subchapter by a party to the contract, 
the Secretary concerned shall use the authorities available to the 
Secretary, including withholding amounts to be paid under the contract, 
to encourage the party to cure the breach.
    ``(b) Rescinding of Contract.--If a material breach of the contract 
is not cured in a timely manner, as determined by the Secretary 
concerned, the Secretary may--
        ``(1) rescind the contract pursuant to the terms of the 
    contract; and
        ``(2) prohibit the offending party from entering into a new 
    contract or undertaking expansions of other existing contracts, or 
    both, with the Secretary under this subchapter.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2872a the 
following new item:

``2872b. Treatment of breach of contract.''.
SEC. 3034. MODIFICATION TO REQUIREMENTS FOR WINDOW FALL PREVENTION 
DEVICES IN MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.
    (a) Fall Prevention Device Requirements.--Section 2879(a) of title 
10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``that protect against 
    unintentional window falls by young children and that are in 
    compliance with applicable International Building Code (IBC) 
    standards'' and inserting ``described in paragraph (3)'';
        (2) in paragraph (2)--
            (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``December 11, 2017'' 
        and inserting ``October 1, 2019''; and
            (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``September 1, 2018'' 
        and inserting ``October 1, 2019''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) Fall prevention device described.--A fall prevention 
    device is a window screen or guard that complies with applicable 
    standards in ASTM standard F2090-13 (or any successor standard).''.
    (b) Modification to Window Description.--Section 2879(c) of title 
10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``24'' and inserting 
``42''.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Section 2879(b)(1) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``paragraph (1)'' and inserting 
``paragraph (3)''.
SEC. 3035. EXPANSION OF DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
FOR CHILDCARE SERVICES PROVIDERS FOR DEPARTMENT CHILD DEVELOPMENT 
CENTERS TO INCLUDE DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR INSTALLATION MILITARY 
HOUSING OFFICE PERSONNEL.
    (a) In General.--Section 559 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1406; 10 U.S.C. 
1792 note) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting ``, 
        and individuals to fill vacancies in installation military 
        housing offices,'' after ``childcare services providers'';
            (B) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``or for employees at 
        installation military housing offices'' before the semicolon; 
        and
            (C) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``or for installation 
        military housing office employees'' before the period;
        (2) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g); and
        (3) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
    subsection (f):
    ``(f) Installation Military Housing Office Defined.--The term 
`installation military housing office' means any office whose primary 
function is performing day-to-day supervision of military housing 
covered by subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United States 
Code.''.
    (b) Heading and Technical Amendments.--
        (1) Heading amendment.--The heading of such section is amended 
    to read as follows:
    ``SEC. 559. DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FOR 
      CHILDCARE SERVICES PROVIDERS FOR DEPARTMENT CHILD DEVELOPMENT 
      CENTERS AND EMPLOYEES AT INSTALLATION MILITARY HOUSING 
      OFFICES.''.
        (2) Technical amendment.--Subsection (d) of such section is 
    amended by striking ``Oversight and Government Reform'' and 
    inserting ``Oversight and Reform''.
    (c) Use of Existing Regulations.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
use the authority in section 559 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2018 granted by the amendments made by this section 
in a manner consistent with the regulations prescribed for purposes of 
such section 559 pursuant to subsection (b) of such section 559, 
without the need to prescribe separate regulations for the use of such 
authority.
SEC. 3036. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO MAKE PAYMENTS TO LESSORS OF 
PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.
    (a) Modification of Payment Authority.--Subsection (a) of section 
606 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1795; 10 U.S.C. 2871 note) is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Use of Funds in Connection With MHPI.--
        ``(1) Payments to lessors generally.--
            ``(A) Payment authority.--Each month beginning with the 
        first month after the date of the enactment of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, each Secretary 
        of a military department shall use funds, in an amount 
        determined under subparagraph (B), to make payments to lessors 
        of covered housing in the manner provided by this subsection, 
        as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020.
            ``(B) Calculation of monthly payments.--For purposes of 
        making payments under subparagraph (A) for a month, the 
        Secretary of the military department concerned shall determine 
        the amount equal to 2.5 percent of the aggregate of the amounts 
        calculated under section 403(b)(3)(A)(i) of title 37, United 
        States Code, for covered housing under the jurisdiction of the 
        Secretary for that month.
        ``(2) Additional payments to lessors responsible for 
    underfunded projects.--
            ``(A) Payment authority.--Each month beginning with the 
        first month after the date of the enactment of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, each Secretary 
        of a military department shall use funds, in an amount 
        determined under subparagraph (B), to make additional payments 
        to certain lessors responsible for underfunded MHPI housing 
        projects identified pursuant to subparagraph (C) for the 
        purposes of future sustainment, recapitalization, and financial 
        sustainability of the projects.
            ``(B) Calculation of monthly payments.--For purposes of 
        making payments under subparagraph (A) for a month, the 
        Secretary of the military department concerned shall determine 
        the amount equal to 2.5 percent of the aggregate of the amounts 
        calculated under section 403(b)(3)(A)(i) of title 37, United 
        States Code, for covered housing under the jurisdiction of the 
        Secretary for that month.
            ``(C) Identification of underfunded projects.--The Chief 
        Housing Officer of the Department of Defense, in conjunction 
        with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall assess 
        MHPI housing projects for the purpose of identifying all MHPI 
        housing projects that are underfunded. Once identified, the 
        Chief Housing Officer shall prioritize for payments under 
        subparagraph (A) those MHPI housing projects most in need of 
        funding to rectify such underfunding.
        ``(3) Alternative authority in event of lack of underfunded 
    projects.--
            ``(A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), if the 
        Chief Housing Officer determines that no MHPI housing projects 
        for a military department require additional funding under 
        paragraph (2) for a month, the Secretary of the military 
        department concerned, in consultation with the Chief Housing 
        Officer, may allocate the funds otherwise available to the 
        Secretary under such paragraph for that month to support 
        improvements designed to enhance the quality of life of members 
        of the uniformed services and their families who reside in MHPI 
        housing.
            ``(B) Conditions.--Before the Secretary of a military 
        department may allocate funds as authorized by subparagraph 
        (A), the Chief Housing Officer shall certify to the Committees 
        on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives that there are no MHPI housing projects for the 
        military department require additional funding under paragraph 
        (2). The certification shall include sufficient details to show 
        why no projects are determined to need the additional funds.
        ``(4) Briefing required.--Not later than March 1, 2020, and 
    each year thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall provide a 
    briefing to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
    House of Representatives detailing the expenditure of funds under 
    paragraphs (2) and (3), the MHPI housing projects receiving funds 
    under such paragraphs, and any other information the Secretary 
    considers relevant.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act and shall apply with 
respect to months beginning after that date.
SEC. 3037. TECHNICAL CORRECTION TO DEFINITION USED TO MAKE PAYMENTS TO 
LESSORS OF PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.
    Paragraph (3) of section 606(d) of the John S. McCain National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 
Stat. 1796; 10 U.S.C. 2871 note) is amended to read as follows:
        ``(3) The term `MHPI housing' means housing procured, acquired, 
    constructed, or for which any phase or portion of a project 
    agreement was first finalized and signed, under the alternative 
    authority of subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United 
    States Code (known as the Military Housing Privatization 
    Initiative), on or before September 30, 2014.''.

              Subtitle C--One-Time Reporting Requirements

SEC. 3041. REPORT ON CIVILIAN PERSONNEL SHORTAGES FOR APPROPRIATE 
OVERSIGHT OF MANAGEMENT OF MILITARY HOUSING CONSTRUCTED OR ACQUIRED 
USING ALTERNATIVE AUTHORITY FOR ACQUISITION AND IMPROVEMENT OF MILITARY 
HOUSING.
    (a) Report.--Not later than six months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
the Secretaries of the military departments, shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report containing the following:
        (1) An evaluation of the extent to which shortages in the 
    number of civilian personnel performing oversight functions at 
    Department of Defense housing management offices or assigned to 
    housing-related functions at headquarters levels contribute to 
    problems regarding the management of privatized military housing.
        (2) Recommendations to address such personnel shortages--
            (A) to eliminate problems regarding the management of 
        privatized military housing;
            (B) to ensure oversight of the partner's execution of the 
        housing agreement and the delivery of all requirements in 
        accordance with implementing guidance provided by the 
        Secretaries of the military departments;
            (C) to improve oversight of and expedite the work-order 
        process; and
            (D) to facilitate a positive experience for members of the 
        Armed Forces and their dependents who reside in privatized 
        military housing.
    (b) Personnel Recommendations.--As part of the recommendations 
required by subsection (a)(2), the Secretary of Defense shall identify 
the following:
        (1) The number of additional personnel who are required, the 
    installation and headquarter locations at which they will be 
    employed, the employment positions they will fill, and the duties 
    they will perform, including a breakdown of duty requirements by 
    function, such as oversight, home inspectors, and maintenance.
        (2) The number of such additional personnel already hired as of 
    the date on which the report is submitted and their duty locations 
    and the timeline for employing the remaining required personnel 
    identified under paragraph (1).
        (3) The estimated cost of employing the additional required 
    personnel identified under paragraph (1).
SEC. 3042. PLANS FOR CREATION OF COUNCILS ON PRIVATIZED MILITARY 
HOUSING.
    (a) Plans Required.--Not later than February 1, 2020, the Assistant 
Secretary of each military department shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a plan for the creation within the military 
department concerned of a council on privatized military housing for 
the purposes of maintaining adequate oversight of the military housing 
program and serving as a mechanism to identify and resolve problems 
regarding privatized military housing.
    (b) Plan Elements.--The plan for a military department shall 
include--
        (1) an implementation schedule for the creation the council on 
    privatized military housing;
        (2) proposed members of the council, which shall include, at a 
    minimum, the Assistant Secretary concerned and a representative 
    from the installation housing offices and the civil engineering 
    community; and
        (3) the planned frequency of council meetings.
SEC. 3043. PLAN FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE JURISDICTION 
OVER OFF-BASE PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.
    (a) Plan Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a plan to establish jurisdiction by 
the Department of Defense for law enforcement and other specified 
purposes, concurrently with local community law enforcement, at 
locations with privatized military housing that is not located on an 
installation of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Consultation.--The Secretary of Defense shall prepare the plan 
in consultation with the Secretaries of the military departments.
SEC. 3044. INSPECTOR GENERAL REVIEW OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OVERSIGHT 
OF PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.
    Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, and annually thereafter until 2022, the Inspector General of the 
Department of Defense shall--
        (1) conduct, at not less than three military installations, a 
    review of the oversight by the Secretary of Defense of privatized 
    military housing at such installations; and
        (2) make publicly available on a website of the Department a 
    summary of the results of the review.
SEC. 3045. INFORMATION ON LEGAL SERVICES PROVIDED TO MEMBERS OF THE 
ARMED FORCES HARMED BY HEALTH OR ENVIRONMENTAL HAZARDS AT MILITARY 
HOUSING.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report on the legal services that the Secretary 
may provide to members of the Armed Forces who have been harmed by a 
health or environmental hazard while living in military housing.
    (b) Availability of Information.--The Secretary of the military 
department concerned shall make the information contained in the report 
submitted under subsection (a) available to members of the Armed Forces 
at all installations of the Department of Defense in the United States.

   Subtitle D--Development of Housing Reform Standards and Processes

SEC. 3051. UNIFORM CODE OF BASIC STANDARDS FOR PRIVATIZED MILITARY 
HOUSING AND PLAN TO CONDUCT INSPECTIONS AND ASSESSMENTS.
    (a) Uniform Code.--Not later than February 1, 2021, the Secretary 
of Defense shall establish and implement a uniform code of basic 
housing standards for safety, comfort, and habitability for privatized 
military housing, which shall meet or exceed requirements informed by a 
nationally recognized, consensus-based, model property maintenance 
code.
    (b) Inspection and Assessment Plan.--Not later than February 1, 
2020, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a Department of Defense plan to contract with 
qualified home inspectors to conduct a thorough inspection and 
assessment of the structural integrity and habitability of each unit of 
privatized military housing. The plan shall include the implementation 
plan for the uniform code to be established under subsection (a).
    (c) Implementation of Inspections and Assessments.--
        (1) Implementation.--Not later than February 1, 2021, the 
    Secretary of the military department concerned shall commence 
    conducting inspections and assessments of units of privatized 
    military housing pursuant to the plan submitted under subsection 
    (b) to identify issues and ensure compliance with applicable 
    housing codes, including the uniform code established under 
    subsection (a).
        (2) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2021, the Secretary of 
    Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
    report on the findings of the inspections and assessments conducted 
    under paragraph (1).
    (d) Qualified Home Inspectors Described.--For purposes of this 
section, a qualified home inspector must possess the appropriate 
credentials for the work the inspector will perform, as defined by the 
respective State in which the work will be performed. A qualified home 
inspector may not be an employee or in a fiduciary relationship with--
        (1) the Federal Government; or
        (2) an individual or entity who owns or manages privatized 
    military housing.
SEC. 3052. TOOL FOR ASSESSMENT OF HAZARDS IN DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
HOUSING.
    (a) Hazard Assessment Tool.--
        (1) Development required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
    develop an assessment tool, such as a rating system or similar 
    mechanism, to identify and measure health and safety hazards in 
    housing under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense 
    (including privatized military housing).
        (2) Components.--The assessment tool shall provide for the 
    identification and measurement of the following hazards:
            (A) Physiological hazards, including dampness and mold 
        growth, lead-based paint, asbestos and manmade fibers, 
        radiation, biocides, carbon monoxide, and volatile organic 
        compounds.
            (B) Psychological hazards, including ease of access by 
        unlawful intruders, and lighting issues.
            (C) Infection hazards.
            (D) Safety hazards.
        (3) Public forums.--In developing the assessment tool, the 
    Secretary of Defense shall provide for multiple public forums at 
    which the Secretary may receive input with respect to such 
    assessment tool from occupants of housing under the jurisdiction of 
    the Department of Defense (including privatized military housing).
        (4) Report.--Not later than 210 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
    Representatives a report on the assessment tool.
    (b) Hazard Assessments.--
        (1) Assessments required.--Not later than one year after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, using 
    the assessment tool developed under subsection (a)(1), shall 
    complete a hazard assessment for each housing facility under the 
    jurisdiction of the Department of Defense (including privatized 
    military housing).
        (2) Tenant information.--As soon as practicable after the 
    completion of the hazard assessment conducted for a housing 
    facility under paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense shall 
    provide to each individual who leases or is assigned to a housing 
    unit in the facility a summary of the results of the assessment.
SEC. 3053. PROCESS TO IDENTIFY AND ADDRESS ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH HAZARDS 
IN DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE HOUSING.
    (a) Process Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination 
with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall develop a 
process to identify, record, and resolve environmental health hazards 
in housing under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense 
(including privatized housing) in a timely manner.
    (b) Elements of Process.--The process developed under subsection 
(a) shall provide for the following with respect to each identified 
environmental health hazard:
        (1) Categorization of the hazard.
        (2) Identification of health risks posed by the hazard.
        (3) Identification of the number of housing occupants 
    potentially affected by the hazard.
        (4) Recording and maintenance of information regarding the 
    hazard.
        (5) Resolution of the hazard, which shall include--
            (A) the performance by the Secretary of Defense (or in the 
        case of privatized housing, the landlord) of hazard remediation 
        activities at the affected facility; and
            (B) follow-up by the Secretary of Defense to collect 
        information on medical care related to the hazard sought or 
        received by individuals affected by the hazard.
    (c) Coordination.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure 
coordination between military treatment facilities, appropriate public 
health officials, and housing managers at military installations with 
respect to the development and implementation of the process required 
by subsection (a).
    (d) Report.--Not later than 210 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on the process required by subsection (a).
SEC. 3054. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE POLICY ON LEAD-BASED PAINT TESTING ON 
MILITARY INSTALLATIONS.
    (a) Access and Testing Policy.--Not later than February 1, 2020, 
the Secretary of Defense shall establish a policy under which the 
Secretary of the military department concerned may permit a qualified 
individual to access a military installation for the purpose of 
conducting testing for the presence of lead-based paint on the 
installation.
    (b) Transmission of Results.--
        (1) Installations inside the united states.--In the case of 
    military installations located inside the United States, the 
    results of any testing for lead-based paint on a military 
    installation shall be transmitted the following:
            (A) The civil engineer of the installation.
            (B) The housing management office of the installation.
            (C) The public health organization on the installation.
            (D) The major subordinate command of the Armed Force with 
        jurisdiction over the installation.
            (E) If required by law, any relevant Federal, State, and 
        local agencies.
        (2) Installations outside the united states.--In the case of 
    military installations located outside the United States, the 
    results of any testing for lead-based paint on a military 
    installation shall be transmitted to the civil engineer or 
    commander of the installation who shall transmit those results to 
    the major subordinate command of the Armed Force with jurisdiction 
    over the installation.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``United States'' has the meaning given that term 
    in section 101(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code.
        (2) The term ``qualified individual'' means an individual who 
    is certified by the Environmental Protection Agency or by a State 
    as--
            (A) a lead-based paint inspector; or
            (B) a lead-based paint risk assessor.
SEC. 3055. STANDARD FOR MINIMUM CREDENTIALS FOR HEALTH AND 
ENVIRONMENTAL INSPECTORS OF PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.
    (a) Development and Submission of Standard.--Not later than 
February 1, 2020, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report that contains a standard for 
minimum credentials to be used throughout the Department of Defense for 
all inspectors of health and environmental hazards at privatized 
military housing, including inspectors contracted by the Department.
    (b) Inclusion of Categories for Specific Environmental Hazards.--
The standard submitted under subsection (a) shall include categories 
for specific environmental hazards such as lead, mold, and radon.
SEC. 3056. REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO MOVE-IN, MOVE-OUT, AND MAINTENANCE 
OF PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.
    (a) Move-in and Move-out Checklist.--
        (1) Checklist required.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop 
    a uniform move-in and move-out checklist for use by landlords 
    providing privatized military housing and by tenants of such 
    housing.
        (2) Required move-in element.--A tenant who will occupy a unit 
    of privatized military housing is entitled to be present for an 
    inspection of the housing unit before accepting occupancy of the 
    housing unit to ensure that the unit is habitable and that 
    facilities and common areas of the building are in good repair.
        (3) Required move-out element.--A tenant of a unit of 
    privatized military housing is entitled to be present for the move-
    out inspection of the housing unit and must be given sufficient 
    time to address any concerns related to the tenant's occupancy of 
    the housing unit.
    (b) Maintenance Checklist.--The Secretary of Defense shall--
        (1) develop a uniform checklist to be used by housing 
    management offices to validate the completion of all maintenance 
    work related to health and safety issues at privatized military 
    housing; and
        (2) require that all maintenance issues and work orders related 
    to health and safety issues at privatized military housing be 
    reported to the commander of the installation for which the housing 
    is provided.
    (c) Consultation.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out this 
section in consultation with the Secretaries of the military 
departments.
    (d) Deadline.--The uniform checklists required by this section 
shall be completed not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
SEC. 3057. STANDARDIZED DOCUMENTATION, TEMPLATES, AND FORMS FOR 
PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.
    (a) Development Required.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop 
    standardized documentation, templates, and forms for use throughout 
    the Department of Defense with respect to privatized military 
    housing. In developing such documentation, templates, and forms, 
    the Secretary shall ensure that, to the maximum extent practicable, 
    the documentation, templates, and forms do not conflict with 
    applicable State and local housing regulations.
        (2) Initial guidance.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall issue 
    guidance for the development of the following:
            (A) Policies and standard operating procedures of the 
        Department for privatized military housing.
            (B) A universal lease agreement for privatized military 
        housing that includes--
                (i) the documents developed pursuant to section 2890 of 
            title 10, United States Code, as added by section 3011, 
            entitled Military Housing Privatization Initiative Tenant 
            Bill of Rights and Military Housing Privatization 
            Initiative Tenant Responsibilities; and
                (ii) any lease addendum required by the law of the 
            State in which the unit of privatized military housing is 
            located.
        (3) Consultation.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out 
    this subsection in consultation with the Secretaries of the 
    military departments.
    (b) Military Department Plans.--Not later than February 1, 2020, 
the Secretary of each military department shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a plan for the implementation of this 
section by that military department.
SEC. 3058. SATISFACTION SURVEY FOR TENANTS OF MILITARY HOUSING.
    (a) Survey Required.--Not later than March 1, 2020, the Secretary 
of Defense shall require that each installation of the Department of 
Defense use the same satisfaction survey for tenants of military 
housing, including privatized military housing.
    (b) Form of Survey.--The satisfaction survey required by subsection 
(a) shall be an electronic survey with embedded privacy and security 
mechanisms.
    (c) Privacy and Security Mechanisms.--The privacy and security 
mechanisms used in the satisfaction survey required by subsection (a)--
        (1) may include a code unique to the tenant to be surveyed that 
    is sent to the cell phone number of the tenant and required to be 
    entered to access the survey; and
        (2) in the case of privatized military housing, shall ensure 
    the survey is not shared with the landlord providing the privatized 
    military housing until the survey is reviewed and the results are 
    tallied by Department of Defense personnel.

                Subtitle E--Other Housing Reform Matters

SEC. 3061. RADON TESTING OF PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.
    (a) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2020, the Secretary of Defense 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
identifying the installations of the Department of Defense that have 
privatized military housing that should be monitored for levels of 
radon at or above the action level.
    (b) Testing Procedures and Standards.--The Secretaries of the 
military departments shall ensure that landlords providing privatized 
military housing at installations identified under subsection (a) 
establish testing procedures that are consistent with then current 
national consensus standards and are in compliance with applicable 
Federal, State, and local radon regulations in order to ensure radon 
levels are below recommended levels established by the Environmental 
Protection Agency, whether through--
        (1) regular testing of privatized military housing by persons 
    who possess certification pursuant to the proficiency program 
    operated under section 305(a)(2) of the Toxic Substances Control 
    Act (15 U.S.C. 2665(a)(2)); or
        (2) the installation of monitoring equipment in privatized 
    military housing.
    (c) Notification Regarding Need for Mitigation.--If, as a result of 
testing described in subsection (b), a unit of privatized military 
housing needs radon mitigation to ensure radon levels are below 
recommended levels, the landlord providing the housing unit shall 
submit to the Secretary of the military department concerned, not later 
than seven days after the determination of the need for radon 
mitigation, the mitigation plan for the housing unit.
SEC. 3062. MITIGATION OF RISKS POSED BY CERTAIN ITEMS IN MILITARY 
FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.
    (a) Anchoring of Items by Residents.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall allow a resident of a military family housing unit to anchor any 
furniture, television, or large appliance to the wall of the unit for 
purposes of preventing such item from tipping over without incurring a 
penalty or obligation to repair the wall upon vacating the unit.
    (b) Anchoring of Items for All Units.--
        (1) Existing units.--Not later than one year after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall ensure 
    that all freestanding chests, door chests, armoires, dressers, 
    entertainment centers, bookcases taller than 27 inches, 
    televisions, and large appliances provided by the Department of 
    Defense are securely anchored in each furnished military family 
    housing unit under the jurisdiction of the Department as of the 
    date of the enactment of this Act.
        (2) New units.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that all 
    freestanding chests, door chests, armoires, dressers, entertainment 
    centers, bookcases taller than 27 inches, televisions, and large 
    appliances provided by the Department of Defense are securely 
    anchored in each furnished military family housing unit made 
    available after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 3063. SUSPENSION OF RESIDENT ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM AND 
RELATED PROGRAMS FOR PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.
    (a) Suspension Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall suspend 
the initiative of the Department of Defense known as the Resident 
Energy Conservation Program and instruct the Secretary of each military 
department to suspend any program carried out by such Secretary that 
measures the energy usage for individual units of privatized military 
housing on installations of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Term of Suspension.--Subject to subsection (c), the suspension 
required by subsection (a) shall remain in effect for an installation 
of the Department of Defense until the Secretary of Defense certifies 
to the congressional defense committees that 100 percent of the 
privatized military housing on the installation is individually metered 
to each respective unit of privatized military housing on the 
installation military housing unit and the meter accurately measures 
the energy usage of the unit.
    (c) Termination.--If the Secretary of Defense is unable to make the 
certification required by subsection (b) for an installation of the 
Department of Defense before the end of the two-year period beginning 
on the date of the enactment of this Act, each program suspended 
pursuant to subsection (a) at that installation shall terminate at the 
end of such period.
SEC. 3064. DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY PILOT PROGRAM TO BUILD AND MONITOR 
USE OF SINGLE FAMILY HOMES.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Army shall carry out a pilot 
program to build and monitor the use of not fewer than five single 
family homes for members of the Army and their families.
    (b) Location.--The Secretary of the Army shall carry out the pilot 
program at no less than two installations of the Army located in 
different climate regions of the United States as determined by the 
Secretary.
    (c) Design.--In building homes under the pilot program, the 
Secretary of the Army shall use the All-American Abode design from the 
suburban single-family division design by the United States Military 
Academy.

 DIVISION C--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND 
                          OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

       TITLE XXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

        Subtitle A--National Security Programs and Authorizations

Sec. 3101. National Nuclear Security Administration.
Sec. 3102. Defense environmental cleanup.
Sec. 3103. Other defense activities.
Sec. 3104. Nuclear energy.

    Subtitle B--Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 3111. Personnel matters at National Nuclear Security 
          Administration.
Sec. 3112. Estimation of costs of meeting defense environmental cleanup 
          milestones required by consent orders.
Sec. 3113. Office of Cost Estimating and Program Evaluation.
Sec. 3114. Clarification of certain Stockpile Responsiveness Program 
          objectives.
Sec. 3115. Elimination of limitation on availability of funds relating 
          to submission of annual reports on unfunded priorities.
Sec. 3116. Modification to certain requirements relating to plutonium 
          pit production capacity.
Sec. 3117. Annual certification of shipments to Waste Isolation Pilot 
          Plant.
Sec. 3118. Extension and modification of pilot program on unavailability 
          for overhead costs of amounts specified for laboratory-
          directed research and development.
Sec. 3119. Modification to limitation on availability of funds for 
          acceleration of nuclear weapons dismantlement.
Sec. 3120. Implementation of common financial reporting system for 
          nuclear security enterprise.
Sec. 3121. Limitation relating to reclassification of high-level waste.
Sec. 3122. National Laboratory Jobs ACCESS Program.

                  Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 3131. Civil penalties for violations of certain whistleblower 
          protections.
Sec. 3132. Repeal of assessments of adequacy of budget requests relating 
          to nuclear weapons stockpile.
Sec. 3133. Repeal of requirement for review relating to enhanced 
          procurement authority.
Sec. 3134. Improvements to Energy Employees Occupational Illness 
          Compensation Program Act of 2000.
Sec. 3135. Replacement of W78 warhead.
Sec. 3136. Independent review of capabilities for detection, 
          verification, and monitoring of nuclear weapons and fissile 
          material.
Sec. 3137. Assessment of high energy density physics.
Sec. 3138. Determination of effect of treaty obligations with respect to 
          producing tritium.
Sec. 3139. Technical corrections to National Nuclear Security 
          Administration Act and Atomic Energy Defense Act.

      TITLE XXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS
       Subtitle A--National Security Programs and Authorizations

SEC. 3101. NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2020 for 
the activities of the National Nuclear Security Administration in 
carrying out programs as specified in the funding table in section 
4701.
    (b) Authorization of New Plant Projects.--From funds referred to in 
subsection (a) that are available for carrying out plant projects, the 
Secretary of Energy may carry out new plant projects for the National 
Nuclear Security Administration as follows:
        Project 20-D-931, KL Fuel Development Laboratory, Knolls Atomic 
    Power Laboratory, Schenectady, New York, $23,700,000.
        General Purpose Project, PF-4 Power and Communications Systems 
    Upgrade, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico, 
    $16,000,000.
SEC. 3102. DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2020 for 
defense environmental cleanup activities in carrying out programs as 
specified in the funding table in section 4701.
    (b) Authorization of New Plant Projects.--From funds referred to in 
subsection (a) that are available for carrying out plant projects, the 
Secretary of Energy may carry out, for defense environmental cleanup 
activities, the following new plant projects:
        Project 20-D-401, Saltstone Disposal Units numbers 10, 11, and 
    12, Savannah River Site, Aiken, South Carolina, $1,000,000.
        Project 20-D-402, Advanced Manufacturing Collaborative, 
    Savannah River Site, Aiken, South Carolina, $50,000,000.
        Project 20-U-401, On-Site Waste Disposal Facility (Cell Lines 2 
    and 3), Portsmouth Site, Pike County, Ohio, $10,000,000.
SEC. 3103. OTHER DEFENSE ACTIVITIES.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
Energy for fiscal year 2020 for other defense activities in carrying 
out programs as specified in the funding table in section 4701.
SEC. 3104. NUCLEAR ENERGY.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
Energy for fiscal year 2020 for nuclear energy as specified in the 
funding table in section 4701.

   Subtitle B--Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations

SEC. 3111. PERSONNEL MATTERS AT NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY 
ADMINISTRATION.
    (a) Personnel Levels of the Office of the Administrator for Nuclear 
Security.--
        (1) Personnel levels.--
            (A) Increase.--Subsection (a) of section 3241A of the 
        National Nuclear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2441a) 
        is amended by striking ``1,690'' both places it appears and 
        inserting ``1,890''.
            (B) Technical amendments.--Such subsection is further 
        amended--
                (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``By October 1, 2015, 
            the'' and inserting ``The''; and
                (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ``2016'' and 
            inserting ``2020''.
        (2) Reports on service support contracts.--Subsection (f) of 
    such section is amended--
            (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``as 
        of the date of the report'' and inserting ``for the most recent 
        fiscal year for which data are available''; and
            (B) by striking paragraph (5) and inserting the following 
        new paragraphs:
        ``(5) With respect to each contract identified under paragraph 
    (2)--
            ``(A) identification of each appropriations account that 
        supports the contract; and
            ``(B) the amount obligated under the contract during the 
        fiscal year, listed by each such account.
        ``(6) With respect to each appropriations account identified 
    under paragraph (5)(A), the total amount obligated for contracts 
    identified under paragraph (2).''.
    (b) Increase in Contracting, Program Management, Scientific, 
Engineering, and Technical Positions.--Section 3241 of the National 
Nuclear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2441) is amended in the 
first sentence by striking ``600'' and inserting ``800''.
SEC. 3112. ESTIMATION OF COSTS OF MEETING DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP 
MILESTONES REQUIRED BY CONSENT ORDERS.
    (a) In General.--Subtitle A of title XLIV of the Atomic Energy 
Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2581 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new section:
``SEC. 4409. ESTIMATION OF COSTS OF MEETING DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL 
CLEANUP MILESTONES REQUIRED BY CONSENT ORDERS.
    ``The Secretary of Energy shall include in the budget justification 
materials submitted to Congress in support of the Department of Energy 
budget for each fiscal year (as submitted with the budget of the 
President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code) a 
report on the cost, for that fiscal year and the four fiscal years 
following that fiscal year, of meeting milestones required by a consent 
order at each defense nuclear facility at which defense environmental 
cleanup activities are occurring. The report shall include, for each 
such facility--
        ``(1) a specification of the cost of meeting such milestones 
    during that fiscal year; and
        ``(2) an estimate of the cost of meeting such milestones during 
    the four fiscal years following that fiscal year.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the Atomic 
Energy Defense Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 4408 the following new item:

``Sec. 4409. Estimation of costs of meeting defense environmental 
          cleanup milestones required by consent orders.''.
SEC. 3113. OFFICE OF COST ESTIMATING AND PROGRAM EVALUATION.
    (a) Reporting.--Section 3221(b)(1) of the National Nuclear Security 
Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2411(b)(1)) is amended by adding at the 
end the following new sentence: ``The Director shall report directly to 
the Administrator.''.
    (b) Briefing.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator for Nuclear Security shall 
provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on the plan 
of the Administrator to fully staff the Office of Cost Estimating and 
Program Evaluation of the National Nuclear Security Administration 
pursuant to section 3221(f) of the National Nuclear Security 
Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2411(f)).
SEC. 3114. CLARIFICATION OF CERTAIN STOCKPILE RESPONSIVENESS PROGRAM 
OBJECTIVES.
    Section 4220(c) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 
2538b(c)) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``capabilities required, 
    including prototypes'' and inserting ``capabilities as required, 
    such as through the use of prototypes''; and
        (2) in paragraph (6)--
            (A) by striking ``in consultation with the Director of 
        National Intelligence'' and inserting ``in coordination with 
        the Director of National Intelligence''; and
            (B) by inserting ``if needed to meet intelligence 
        requirements'' after ``foreign countries''.
SEC. 3115. ELIMINATION OF LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS RELATING 
TO SUBMISSION OF ANNUAL REPORTS ON UNFUNDED PRIORITIES.
    Section 4716 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2756) is 
amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(a) Annual Report or Certification.--Not later than 10 days after 
the date on which the budget of the President for a fiscal year is 
submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
States Code, the Administrator shall submit to the Secretary of Energy 
and the congressional defense committees either--
        ``(1) a report on the unfunded priorities of the 
    Administration; or
        ``(2) if the Administrator determines that there are no 
    unfunded priorities to include in such a report, a certification 
    and explanation by the Administrator, without delegation, of the 
    determination.'';
        (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``report required by 
    subsection (a)'' both places it appears and inserting ``report 
    under subsection (a)(1)'';
        (3) by striking subsection (c); and
        (4) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (c).
SEC. 3116. MODIFICATION TO CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO PLUTONIUM 
PIT PRODUCTION CAPACITY.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) rebuilding a robust plutonium pit production infrastructure 
    with a capacity of up to 80 pits per year is critical to 
    maintaining the viability of the nuclear weapons stockpile;
        (2) that effort will require cooperation from experts across 
    the nuclear security enterprise; and
        (3) any further delay to achieving a plutonium sustainment 
    capability to support the planned stockpile life extension programs 
    will result in an unacceptable capability gap to our deterrent 
    posture.
    (b) Modification to Requirements.--Section 4219 of the Atomic 
Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2538a) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking paragraph (5) and inserting 
    the following:
        ``(5) during 2030, produces not less than 80 war reserve 
    plutonium pits.'';
        (2) by striking subsection (b);
        (3) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections (b) 
    and (c), respectively;
        (4) in subsection (b), as redesignated by paragraph (2), by 
    striking ``2027 (or, if the authority under subsection (b) is 
    exercised, 2029)'' and inserting ``2030''; and
        (5) in subsection (c), as redesignated by paragraph (2), by 
    striking ``subsection (c)'' and inserting ``subsection (b)''.
SEC. 3117. ANNUAL CERTIFICATION OF SHIPMENTS TO WASTE ISOLATION PILOT 
PLANT.
    Section 3115(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2759), as amended by 
section 3137(b) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2303), is 
further amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
``three-year period'' and inserting ``10-year period''.
SEC. 3118. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF PILOT PROGRAM ON 
UNAVAILABILITY FOR OVERHEAD COSTS OF AMOUNTS SPECIFIED FOR LABORATORY-
DIRECTED RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.
    Section 3119 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 50 U.S.C. 2791 note) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ``three'' and inserting 
    ``four''; and
        (2) in subsection (d)--
            (A) by striking ``Before the termination under subsection 
        (c)(2) of the pilot program required by subsection (a)'' and 
        inserting ``Not later than February 15, 2020''; and
            (B) by inserting before the end period the following: ``, 
        including effects on laboratory-directed research and 
        development and other programs''.
SEC. 3119. MODIFICATION TO LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR 
ACCELERATION OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS DISMANTLEMENT.
    Subsection (a) of section 3125 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 
2766), as amended by section 3117 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1890), is 
amended by striking ``$56,000,000'' and inserting ``$87,000,000''.
SEC. 3120. IMPLEMENTATION OF COMMON FINANCIAL REPORTING SYSTEM FOR 
NUCLEAR SECURITY ENTERPRISE.
    Not more than 90 percent of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
by section 3101 for the National Nuclear Security Administration for 
fiscal year 2020 for Federal salaries and expenses and available for 
travel and transportation may be obligated or expended before the date 
on which the Administrator for Nuclear Security completes 
implementation of the common financial reporting system for the nuclear 
security enterprise as required by section 3113(a) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 50 
U.S.C. 2512 note).
SEC. 3121. LIMITATION RELATING TO RECLASSIFICATION OF HIGH-LEVEL WASTE.
    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
otherwise made available for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of 
Energy may be obligated or expended by the Secretary of Energy to apply 
the interpretation of high-level radioactive waste described in the 
notice published by the Secretary titled ``Supplemental Notice 
Concerning U.S. Department of Energy Interpretation of High-Level 
Radioactive Waste'' (84 Fed. Reg. 26835), or successor notice, with 
respect to such waste located in the State of Washington.
SEC. 3122. NATIONAL LABORATORY JOBS ACCESS PROGRAM.
    (a) In General.--On or after the date that is 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary may establish a 
program, to be known as the ``Department of Energy National Lab Jobs 
ACCESS Program'', under which the Secretary may award, on a competitive 
basis, 5-year grants to eligible entities described in subsection (c) 
for the Federal share of the costs of pre-apprenticeship programs and 
apprenticeship programs described in subsection (b).
    (b) Pre-apprenticeship and Apprenticeship Programs Described.--A 
pre-apprenticeship program or apprenticeship program described in this 
subsection is a pre-apprenticeship program or apprenticeship program 
that--
        (1) leads to recognized postsecondary credentials for secondary 
    school and postsecondary students;
        (2) is focused on skills and qualifications needed, as 
    determined by the Secretary in consultation with the directors of 
    the National Laboratories, to meet the immediate and ongoing needs 
    of traditional and emerging technician positions (including 
    machinists and cybersecurity technicians) at the National 
    Laboratories and covered facilities of the National Nuclear 
    Security Administration;
        (3) is established in consultation with a National Laboratory 
    or covered facility of the National Nuclear Security 
    Administration;
        (4) is registered with and approved by the Secretary of Labor 
    or a State apprenticeship agency; and
        (5) ensures that participants in the pre-apprenticeship program 
    or apprenticeship program do not displace paid employees.
    (c) Eligible Entities Described.--An eligible entity described in 
this subsection is a workforce intermediary or an eligible sponsor of a 
pre-apprenticeship program or apprenticeship program that--
        (1) demonstrates experience in implementing and providing 
    career planning and career pathways toward pre-apprenticeship 
    programs or apprenticeship programs;
        (2)(A) has a relationship with a National Laboratory or covered 
    facility of the National Nuclear Security Administration;
        (B) has knowledge of the technician workforce needs of the 
    laboratory or facility and the associated security requirements of 
    the laboratory or facility; and
        (C) is eligible to enter into an agreement with the laboratory 
    or facility that would be paid for in part or entirely from grant 
    funds received under this section;
        (3) demonstrates the ability to recruit and support individuals 
    who plan to work in relevant technician positions upon the 
    successful completion of the pre-apprenticeship program or 
    apprenticeship program;
        (4) provides students who complete the pre-apprenticeship 
    program or apprenticeship program with, or prepares such students 
    for obtaining, a recognized postsecondary credential;
        (5) uses related instruction that is specifically aligned with 
    the needs of the laboratory or facility and utilizes workplace 
    learning advisors and on-the-job training to the greatest extent 
    possible; and
        (6) demonstrates successful outcomes connecting graduates of 
    the pre-apprenticeship program or apprenticeship program to careers 
    relevant to the program.
    (d) Applications.--If the Secretary establishes the program 
described in subsection (a), an eligible entity described in subsection 
(c) seeking a grant under the program shall submit to the Secretary an 
application at such time, in such manner, and containing such 
information as the Secretary may require.
    (e) Priority.--In selecting eligible entities described in 
subsection (c) to receive grants under this section, the Secretary may 
prioritize an eligible entity that--
        (1) is a member of an industry or sector partnership;
        (2) provides related instruction for a pre-apprenticeship 
    program or apprenticeship program through--
            (A) a local educational agency, a secondary school, a 
        provider of adult education, an area career and technical 
        education school, or an institution of higher education (such 
        as a community college) that includes basic science, 
        technology, and mathematics education in the related 
        instruction; or
            (B) an apprenticeship program that was registered with the 
        Department of Labor or a State apprenticeship agency before the 
        date on which the eligible entity applies for the grant under 
        subsection (d);
        (3) works with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of 
    Veterans Affairs, or veterans organizations to transition members 
    of the Armed Forces and veterans to pre-apprenticeship programs or 
    apprenticeship programs in a relevant sector;
        (4) plans to use the grant to carry out the pre-apprenticeship 
    program or apprenticeship program with an entity that receives 
    State funding or is operated by a State agency; and
        (5) plans to use the grant to carry out the pre-apprenticeship 
    program or apprenticeship program for--
            (A) young adults ages 16 to 29, inclusive; or
            (B) individuals with barriers to employment.
    (f) Additional Consideration.--In making grants under this section, 
the Secretary may consider regional diversity.
    (g) Limitation on Applications.--An eligible entity described in 
subsection (c) may not submit, either individually or as part of a 
joint application, more than one application for a grant under this 
section during any one fiscal year.
    (h) Limitations on Amount of Grant.--The amount of a grant provided 
under this section may not, for any 24-month period of the 5-year grant 
period, exceed $500,000.
    (i) Non-Federal Share.--The non-Federal share of the cost of a pre-
apprenticeship program or apprenticeship program carried out using a 
grant under this section shall be not less than 25 percent of the total 
cost of the program.
    (j) Technical Assistance.--The Secretary may provide technical 
assistance to eligible entities described in subsection (c) to leverage 
the existing job training and education programs of the Department of 
Labor and other relevant programs at appropriate Federal agencies.
    (k) Report.--
        (1) In general.--If the Secretary establishes the program 
    described in subsection (a), not less than once every 2 years 
    thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to Congress, and make 
    publicly available on the website of the Department of Energy, a 
    report on the program, including--
            (A) a description of--
                (i) any entity that receives a grant under this 
            section;
                (ii) any activity carried out using a grant under this 
            section; and
                (iii) best practices used to leverage the investment of 
            the Federal Government under this section; and
            (B) an assessment of the results achieved by the program, 
        including the rate of employment for participants after 
        completing a pre-apprenticeship program or apprenticeship 
        program carried out using a grant under this section.
        (2) Performance reports.--Not later than one year after the 
    establishment of a pre-apprenticeship program or apprenticeship 
    program using a grant awarded under this section, and annually 
    thereafter, the entity carrying out the program shall submit to the 
    Secretary and the Secretary of Labor a report on the effectiveness 
    of the program based on the accountability measures described in 
    clauses (i) and (ii) of section 116(b)(2)(A) of the Workforce 
    Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3141(b)(2)(A)).
    (l) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) ESEA terms.--The terms ``local educational agency'' and 
    ``secondary school'' have the meanings given the terms in section 
    8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 
    U.S.C. 7801).
        (2) WIOA terms.--The terms ``career planning'', ``community-
    based organization'', ``customized training'', ``economic 
    development agency'', ``individual with a barrier to employment'', 
    ``industry or sector partnership'', ``on-the-job training'', 
    ``recognized postsecondary credential'', and ``workplace learning 
    advisor'' have the meanings given such terms in section 3 of the 
    Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102).
        (3) Apprenticeship program.--The term ``apprenticeship 
    program'' means a program registered under the Act of August 16, 
    1937 (commonly known as the ``National Apprenticeship Act''; 50 
    Stat. 664, chapter 663; 29 U.S.C. 50 et seq.).
        (4) Area career and technical education school.--The term 
    ``area career and technical education school'' has the meaning 
    given the term in section 3 of the Carl D. Perkins Career and 
    Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2302).
        (5) Community college.--The term ``community college'' has the 
    meaning given the term ``junior or community college'' in section 
    312(f) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1058(f)).
        (6) Covered facility of the national nuclear security 
    administration.--The term ``covered facility of the National 
    Nuclear Security Administration'' means a national security 
    laboratory or a nuclear weapons production facility as such terms 
    are defined in section 4002 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 
    U.S.C. 2501).
        (7) Eligible sponsor.--The term ``eligible sponsor'' means a 
    public organization or nonprofit organization that--
            (A) with respect to an apprenticeship program, administers 
        the program through a partnership that may include--
                (i) an industry or sector partnership;
                (ii) an employer or industry association;
                (iii) a labor-management organization;
                (iv) a local workforce development board or State 
            workforce development board;
                (v) a 2- or 4-year institution of higher education that 
            offers an educational program leading to an associate's or 
            bachelor's degree in conjunction with a certificate of 
            completion of apprenticeship;
                (vi) the Armed Forces (including the National Guard and 
            Reserves);
                (vii) a community-based organization; or
                (viii) an economic development agency; and
            (B) with respect to a pre-apprenticeship program, is a 
        local educational agency, a secondary school, an area career 
        and technical education school, a provider of adult education, 
        a State workforce development board, a local workforce 
        development board, or a community-based organization, that 
        administers the program with any required coordination and 
        necessary approvals from the Secretary of Labor or a State 
        department of labor.
        (8) Institution of higher education.--The term ``institution of 
    higher education'' has the meaning given the term in section 101 of 
    the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001).
        (9) Local workforce development board.--The term ``local 
    workforce development board'' has the meaning given the term 
    ``local board'' in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and 
    Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102).
        (10) National laboratory.--The term ``National Laboratory'' has 
    the meaning given the term in section 2 of the Energy Policy Act of 
    2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801).
        (11) Nonprofit organization.--The term ``nonprofit 
    organization'' means an organization that is described in section 
    501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from tax 
    under section 501(a) of such Code.
        (12) Pre-apprenticeship program.--The term ``pre-apprenticeship 
    program'' means a program--
            (A) designed to prepare individuals to enter and succeed in 
        an apprenticeship program; and
            (B) that has a documented partnership with at least one, if 
        not more, apprenticeship programs.
        (13) Provider of adult education.--The term ``provider of adult 
    education'' has the meaning given the term ``eligible provider'' in 
    section 203 of the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act (29 
    U.S.C. 3272).
        (14) Related instruction.--The term ``related instruction'' 
    means an organized and systematic form of instruction designed to 
    provide an individual in a pre-apprenticeship program or 
    apprenticeship program with the knowledge of the technical subjects 
    related to the intended occupation of the individual after 
    completion of the program.
        (15) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    Energy, in consultation with the Secretary of Labor, except as 
    otherwise specified in this section.
        (16) Sponsor.--The term ``sponsor'' means any person, 
    association, committee, or organization operating a pre-
    apprenticeship program or apprenticeship program and in whose name 
    the program is (or is to be) registered or approved.
        (17) State apprenticeship agency.--The term ``State 
    apprenticeship agency'' has the meaning given that term in section 
    29.2 of title 29, Code of Federal Regulations (or any corresponding 
    similar regulation or ruling).
        (18) State workforce development board.--The term ``State 
    workforce development board'' has the meaning given the term 
    ``State board'' in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and 
    Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102).
        (19) Workforce intermediary.--The term ``workforce 
    intermediary''--
            (A) means a nonprofit organization that--
                (i) proactively addresses workforce needs using a dual 
            customer approach, which considers the needs of both 
            employees and employers; and
                (ii) has partnered with a sponsor of a pre-
            apprenticeship program or apprenticeship program or is a 
            sponsor of a pre-apprenticeship program or apprenticeship 
            program; and
            (B) may include a community organization, an employer 
        organization, a community college, a temporary staffing agency, 
        a State workforce development board, a local workforce 
        development board, or a labor or labor-management organization.

                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

SEC. 3131. CIVIL PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS OF CERTAIN WHISTLEBLOWER 
PROTECTIONS.
    Section 234A of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2282a) is 
amended--
        (1) in the heading, by inserting ``and whistleblower'' after 
    ``safety'';
        (2) in subsection a.--
            (A) by inserting ``, or who violates any applicable law, 
        rule, regulation, or order related to nuclear safety 
        whistleblower protections,'' before ``shall be subject to a 
        civil penalty''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``The 
        Secretary of Energy may carry out this section with respect to 
        the National Nuclear Security Administration by acting through 
        the Administrator for Nuclear Security.''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``e. In this section, the term `nuclear safety whistleblower 
protections' means the protections for employees of contractors or 
subcontractors from reprisals pursuant to section 4712 of title 41, 
United States Code, section 211 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5851), or other provisions of Federal law (including 
rules, regulations, or orders) affording such protections, with respect 
to disclosures or other activities covered by such protections that 
relate to nuclear safety.''.
SEC. 3132. REPEAL OF ASSESSMENTS OF ADEQUACY OF BUDGET REQUESTS 
RELATING TO NUCLEAR WEAPONS STOCKPILE.
    (a) In General.--Section 3255 of the National Nuclear Security 
Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2455) is repealed.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the National 
Nuclear Security Administration Act is amended by striking the item 
relating to section 3255.
SEC. 3133. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT FOR REVIEW RELATING TO ENHANCED 
PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY.
    Section 4806 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2786) is 
amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (e); and
        (2) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections (e) 
    and (f), respectively.
SEC. 3134. IMPROVEMENTS TO ENERGY EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS 
COMPENSATION PROGRAM ACT OF 2000.
    (a) Office of Ombudsman.--Section 3686 of the Energy Employees 
Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 7385s-
15) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (c)--
            (A) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs 
        (3) and (4), respectively; and
            (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
        paragraph:
        ``(2) To provide guidance and assistance to claimants.''; and
        (2) in subsection (h), by striking ``2019'' and inserting 
    ``2020''.
    (b) Advisory Board on Toxic Substances and Worker Health.--Section 
3687 of the Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program 
Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 7385s-16) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)(1)--
            (A) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``; and'' and 
        inserting a semicolon;
            (B) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``; and'' and 
        inserting a semicolon; and
            (C) by adding after subparagraph (D) the following:
            ``(E) the claims adjudication process generally, including 
        review of procedure manual changes prior to incorporation into 
        the manual and claims for medical benefits; and
            ``(F) such other matters as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate; and'';
        (2) in subsection (g)--
            (A) by striking ``The Secretary of Energy shall'' and 
        inserting ``The Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of Labor 
        shall each''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``The 
        Secretary of Labor shall make available to the Board the 
        program's medical director, toxicologist, industrial hygienist 
        and program's support contractors as requested by the Board.'';
        (3) by redesignating subsections (h) and (i) as subsections (i) 
    and (j), respectively; and
        (4) by inserting after subsection (g) the following:
    ``(h) Response to Recommendations.--Not later than 60 days after 
submission to the Secretary of Labor of the Board's recommendations, 
the Secretary shall respond to the Board in writing, and post on the 
public internet website of the Department of Labor, a response to the 
recommendations that--
        ``(1) includes a statement of whether the Secretary accepts or 
    rejects the Board's recommendations;
        ``(2) if the Secretary accepts the Board's recommendations, 
    describes the timeline for when those recommendations will be 
    implemented; and
        ``(3) if the Secretary does not accept the recommendations, 
    describes the reasons the Secretary does not agree and provides all 
    scientific research to the Board supporting that decision.''.
SEC. 3135. REPLACEMENT OF W78 WARHEAD.
    (a) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 210 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Administrator for Nuclear Security shall 
    submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
    replacing the W78 warhead.
        (2) Matters included.--The report under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) A discussion of the alternatives considered with 
        respect to replacing the W78 warhead, including--
                (i) a description of the technical risks, schedule, and 
            costs for each alternative to replacing the W78 warhead; 
            and
                (ii) a description of any changes since January 15, 
            2014, to the requirements for such alternatives.
            (B) A review of the matters under subparagraph (A) by the 
        Director for Cost Estimating and Program Evaluation of the 
        National Nuclear Security Administration.
    (b) Independent Study.--
        (1) In general.--The Administrator shall seek to enter into an 
    arrangement with the private scientific advisory group known as 
    JASON to conduct a study of the plan of the Administrator to 
    replace the W78 warhead. Such study shall include--
            (A) an assessment of the risks to certification; and
            (B) the need for planned upgrades to such warhead.
        (2) Submission.--Not later than 150 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees the study under paragraph (1), 
    without change.
SEC. 3136. INDEPENDENT REVIEW OF CAPABILITIES FOR DETECTION, 
VERIFICATION, AND MONITORING OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS AND FISSILE MATERIAL.
    (a) Plan.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Energy, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Defense, shall seek to enter into a contract with the 
National Academy of Sciences to conduct an independent review and 
assessment of United States capabilities for detection, verification, 
and monitoring of nuclear weapons and fissile material.
    (b) Elements.--The review and assessment required by subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
        (1) An evaluation of the current national research enterprise 
    for detection, verification, and monitoring of nuclear weapons and 
    fissile material.
        (2) Integration of roles, responsibilities, and planning for 
    such detection, verification, and monitoring within the Federal 
    Government.
        (3) Opportunities to leverage the national research enterprise 
    to further prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons and fissile 
    material, including with respect to policy, research and 
    development, and testing and evaluation.
        (4) Opportunities for international engagement for building 
    cooperation and transparency, including bilateral and multilateral 
    efforts, to improve inspections, detection, and monitoring of 
    nuclear weapons and fissile material, and to create incentives for 
    such cooperation and transparency.
        (5) Opportunities for new or expanded research and development 
    efforts to improve detection and monitoring of, and in-field 
    inspection and analysis capabilities with respect to, nuclear 
    weapons and fissile materials.
        (6) Opportunities for improved coordination between departments 
    and agencies of the Federal Government and the military 
    departments, national laboratories, commercial industry, and 
    academia.
        (7) Opportunities for leveraging commercial capabilities.
    (c) Submission to Congress.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees, without change, the findings of 
    the National Academy resulting from the review and assessment 
    conducted under subsection (a).
        (2) Form.--The findings described in paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 3137. ASSESSMENT OF HIGH ENERGY DENSITY PHYSICS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator for Nuclear Security shall 
enter into an arrangement with the National Academies of Sciences, 
Engineering, and Medicine to conduct an assessment of recent advances 
and the current status of research in the field of high energy density 
physics.
    (b) Elements.--The assessment conducted under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        (1) Theoretical and computational modeling of high energy 
    density material phases, radiation-matter interactions, plasmas 
    atypical of astrophysical conditions, and conditions unique to the 
    National Nuclear Security Administration.
        (2) The simulation of such phases, interactions, plasmas, and 
    conditions.
        (3) Instrumentation and target fabrication.
        (4) Workforce training.
        (5) An assessment of advancements made by other countries in 
    high energy density physics.
        (6) Such others items as are agreed upon by the Administrator 
    and the National Academies.
    (c) Applicability of Internal Controls.--The assessment under 
subsection (a) shall be conducted in accordance with the internal 
controls of the National Academies.
    (d) Report to Congress.--Not later than 18 months after entering 
into the arrangement under subsection (a), the National Academies of 
Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report on the assessment conducted under that 
subsection.
    (e) High Energy Density Physics Defined.--In this section, the term 
``high energy density physics'' means the physics of matter and 
radiation at--
        (1) energy densities exceeding 100,000,000,000 joules per cubic 
    meter; and
        (2) other temperature and pressure ranges within the warm dense 
    matter regime.
SEC. 3138. DETERMINATION OF EFFECT OF TREATY OBLIGATIONS WITH RESPECT 
TO PRODUCING TRITIUM.
    Not later than February 15, 2020, the Secretary of Energy shall--
        (1) determine whether the Agreement for Cooperation on the Uses 
    of Atomic Energy for Mutual Defense Purposes, signed at Washington, 
    July 3, 1958 (9 UST 1028), between the United States and the United 
    Kingdom, permits the United States to obtain low-enriched uranium 
    for the purposes of producing tritium in the United States; and
        (2) submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
    that determination.
SEC. 3139. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY 
ADMINISTRATION ACT AND ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACT.
    (a) Definitions in National Nuclear Security Administration Act.--
Section 3281(2)(A) of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act 
(50 U.S.C. 2471(2)(A)) is amended by striking ``Plant'' and inserting 
``National Security Campus''.
    (b) Amendments to Atomic Energy Defense Act.--
        (1) Definitions.--Section 4002(9)(A) of the Atomic Energy 
    Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2501(9)(A)) is amended striking ``Plant'' 
    and inserting ``National Security Campus''.
        (2) Stockpile stewardship, management, and responsiveness 
    plan.--Section 4203 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 
    2523) is amended--
            (A) in subsection (d)(4)(A)(ii), by striking ``quadrennial 
        defense review if such strategy has not been submitted'' and 
        inserting ``national defense strategy'';
            (B) in subsection (e)(1)(A)(i), by striking ``or the most 
        recent quadrennial defense review, as applicable under 
        subsection (d)(4)(A), and the'' and inserting ``referred to in 
        subsection (d)(4)(A)(i), the most recent the national defense 
        strategy, and the most recent''; and
            (C) in subsection (f)--
                (i) by striking paragraph (4);
                (ii) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); 
            and
                (iii) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following 
            new paragraph (3):
        ``(3) The term `national defense strategy' means the review of 
    the defense programs and policies of the United States that is 
    carried out every four years under section 113(g) of title 10, 
    United States Code.''.
        (3) Manufacturing infrastructure for nuclear weapons 
    stockpile.--Section 4212 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 
    U.S.C. 2532) is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a)(1), in the matter preceding 
        subparagraph (A), by inserting ``most recent'' before ``Nuclear 
        Posture Review''; and
            (B) in subsection (b)--
                (i) in paragraph (2), by striking ``Plant'' and 
            inserting ``National Security Complex''; and
                (ii) in paragraph (4), by striking ``Plant'' and 
            inserting ``National Security Campus, Kansas City, 
            Missouri''.
        (4) Reports on life extension programs.--
            (A) In general.--Section 4216 of the Atomic Energy Defense 
        Act (50 U.S.C. 2536) is amended--
                (i) in the section heading, by striking ``lifetime'' 
            and inserting ``life''; and
                (ii) by striking ``lifetime'' each place it appears and 
            inserting ``life''.
            (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents for the 
        Atomic Energy Defense Act is amended by striking the item 
        relating to section 4216 and inserting the following new item:

``Sec. 4216. Reports on life extension programs.''.

        (5) Advice on safety, security, and reliability of nuclear 
    weapons stockpile.--Section 4218 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act 
    (50 U.S.C. 2538) is amended--
            (A) in subsection (d), by striking ``or the Commander of 
        the United States Strategic Command''; and
            (B) in subsection (e)(1)--
                (i) by striking ``, a member of'' and all that follows 
            through ``Strategic Command'' and inserting ``or a member 
            of the Nuclear Weapons Council''; and
                (ii) by striking ``, member, or Commander'' and 
            inserting ``or member''.
        (6) Life-cycle cost estimates.--Section 4714(a) of the Atomic 
    Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2754(a)) is amended--
            (A) by striking ``413.3'' and inserting ``413.3B''; and
            (B) by inserting ``, or a successor order,'' after 
        ``assets)''.
        (7) Unfunded priorities.--
            (A) In general.--Section 4716 of the Atomic Energy Defense 
        Act (50 U.S.C. 2756) is amended in the section heading by 
        striking ``national nuclear security administration'' and 
        inserting ``administration''.
            (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents for the 
        Atomic Energy Defense Act is amended by striking the item 
        relating to section 4716 and inserting the following new item:

``Sec. 4716. Unfunded priorities of the Administration.''.

        (8) Reviews of capital assets acquisition projects.--Section 
    4733(d)(3)(B) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 
    2773(d)(3)(B)) is amended by striking ``413.3'' and inserting 
    ``413.3B''.

          TITLE XXXII--DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD

Sec. 3201. Authorization.
Sec. 3202. Improvements to Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board.
Sec. 3203. Membership of Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board.
SECTION 3201. AUTHORIZATION.
    There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020, 
$29,450,000 for the operation of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety 
Board under chapter 21 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286 
et seq.).
SEC. 3202. IMPROVEMENTS TO DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD.
    (a) Staff.--
        (1) Executive director of operations.--
            (A) Establishment of position.--Subsection (b) of section 
        313 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286b) is 
        amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3)(A) The Board shall have an Executive Director of Operations 
who shall be appointed under section 311(c)(6).
    ``(B) The Executive Director of Operations shall report to the 
Chairman.
    ``(C) The Executive Director of Operations shall be the senior 
employee of the Board responsible for--
        ``(i) general administration and technical matters;
        ``(ii) ensuring that the members of the Board are fully and 
    currently informed with respect to matters for which the members 
    are responsible; and
        ``(iii) the functions delegated by the Chairman pursuant to 
    section 311(c)(3)(B).''.
            (B) Delegation of functions.--Paragraph (3) of section 
        311(c) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 2286(c)) is amended--
                (i) by striking ``The Chairman'' and inserting ``(A) 
            The Chairman''; and
                (ii) by adding at the end the following new 
            subparagraph:
    ``(B) In carrying out subparagraph (A), the Chairman shall delegate 
to the Executive Director of Operations established under section 
313(b)(3) the following functions:
        ``(i) Administrative functions of the Board.
        ``(ii) Appointment and supervision of employees of the Board 
    not specified under paragraph (6).
        ``(iii) Distribution of business among the employees and 
    administrative units and offices of the Board.
        ``(iv) Preparation of--
            ``(I) proposals for the reorganization of the 
        administrative units or offices of the Board;
            ``(II) the budget estimate for the Board; and
            ``(III) the proposed distribution of funds according to 
        purposes approved by the Board.''.
        (2) Provision of information to board.--Such section 311(c), as 
    amended by paragraph (1)(B), is further amended--
            (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``paragraphs (5), (6), 
        and (7)'' and inserting ``paragraphs (5) and (6)'';
            (B) by striking paragraph (6); and
            (C) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (6).
        (3) Appointment and removal powers.--Paragraph (6) of such 
    section 311(c), as redesignated by paragraph (2)(C), is amended to 
    read as follows:
    ``(6)(A) The Chairman, subject to the approval of the Board, shall 
appoint the senior employees described in subparagraph (C). Any member 
of the Board may propose to the Chairman an individual to be so 
appointed.
    ``(B) The Chairman, subject to the approval of the Board, may 
remove a senior employee described in subparagraph (C). Any member of 
the Board may propose to the Chairman an individual to be so removed.
    ``(C) The senior employees described in this subparagraph are the 
following senior employees of the Board:
        ``(i) The Executive Director of Operations established under 
    section 313(b)(3).
        ``(ii) The general counsel.''.
        (4) Organization of staff of board.--Section 313(b) of such 
    Act, as amended by paragraph (1)(A), is further amended--
            (A) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ``section 311(c)(7)'' 
        and inserting ``section 311(c)(6)''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(4) Subject to the approval of the Board, the Chairman may 
organize the staff of the Board as the Chairman considers appropriate 
to best accomplish the mission of the Board described in section 
312(a).''.
        (5) Temporary personnel levels.--During fiscal year 2020, the 
    Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board shall employ not fewer than 
    the equivalent of 100 full-time employees.
    (b) Public Health and Safety.--Section 312(a) of such Act (42 
U.S.C. 2286a(a)) is amended by inserting before the period at the end 
the following: ``, including with respect to the health and safety of 
employees and contractors at such facilities''.
    (c) Access to Facilities, Personnel, and Information.--Section 314 
of such Act (42 U.S.C. 2286c) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by striking ``The Secretary of Energy'' and inserting 
        ``Except as specifically provided by this section, the 
        Secretary of Energy'';
            (B) by striking ``ready access'' both places it appears and 
        inserting ``prompt and unfettered access''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``The 
        access provided to defense nuclear facilities, personnel, and 
        information under this subsection shall be provided without 
        regard to the hazard or risk category assigned to a facility by 
        the Secretary.''; and
        (2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following new 
    subsections:
    ``(b) Authority of Secretary to Deny Information.--(1) The 
Secretary may deny access to information under subsection (a) only to 
any person who--
        ``(A) has not been granted an appropriate security clearance or 
    access authorization by the Secretary; or
        ``(B) does not need such access in connection with the duties 
    of such person.
    ``(2) If the Board requests access to information under subsection 
(a) in written form, and the Secretary denies access to such 
information pursuant to paragraph (1)--
        ``(A) the Secretary shall provide the Board notice of such 
    denial in written form; and
        ``(B) not later than January 1 and July 1 of each year 
    beginning in 2020--
            ``(i) the Board shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a report identifying each request for access to 
        information under subsection (a) submitted to the Secretary in 
        written form during the preceding six-month period and denied 
        by the Secretary; and
            ``(ii) the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
        defense committees a report identifying--
                ``(I) each such request denied by the Secretary during 
            that period; and
                ``(II) the reason for the denial.
    ``(3) In this subsection, the term `congressional defense 
committees' has the meaning given that term in section 101(a) of title 
10, United States Code.
    ``(c) Application of Nondisclosure Protections by Board.--The Board 
may not publicly disclose information provided under this section if 
such information is otherwise protected from disclosure by law, 
including deliberative process information.''.
SEC. 3203. MEMBERSHIP OF DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD.
    (a) List of Candidates for Nomination.--Subsection (b) of section 
311 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286) is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(4) The President shall enter into an arrangement with the 
National Academy of Sciences under which the National Academy shall 
maintain a list of individuals who meet the qualifications described in 
paragraph (1) to assist the President in selecting individuals to 
nominate for positions as members of the Board.''.
    (b) Terms of Members.--
        (1) In general.--Subsection (d) of such section is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking the second sentence and 
        inserting the following new sentences: ``A member may be 
        reappointed for a second term only if the member was confirmed 
        by the Senate more than two years into the member's first term. 
        A member may not be reappointed for a third term.''; and
            (B) in paragraph (3)--
                (i) by striking ``Any member'' and inserting ``(A) Any 
            member'';
                (ii) by striking the second sentence; and
                (iii) by adding at the end the following new 
            subparagraph:
    ``(B) A member may not serve after the expiration of the member's 
term, unless the departure of the member would result in the loss of a 
quorum for the Board. If more than one member is serving after the 
expiration of the member's term and a new member is appointed to the 
Board so that one of the members serving after the expiration of the 
member's term is no longer necessary to maintain a quorum, the member 
whose term expired first may no longer serve on the Board.''.
        (2) Effective date.--The amendments made by paragraph (1) shall 
    take effect on the date that is one year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act.
    (c) Filling Vacancies.--Such subsection is further amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(4)(A) Not later than 180 days after the expiration of the term 
of a member of the Board, the President shall--
        ``(i) submit to the Senate the nomination of an individual to 
    fill the vacancy; or
        ``(ii) submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate 
    a report that includes--
            ``(I) a description of the reasons the President did not 
        submit such a nomination; and
            ``(II) a plan for submitting such a nomination during the 
        90-day period following the submission of the report.
    ``(B) If the President does not submit to the Senate the nomination 
of an individual to fill a vacancy during the 90-day period described 
in subclause (II) of subparagraph (A)(ii), the President shall submit 
to the Committee on Armed Services a report described in that 
subparagraph not less frequently than every 90 days until the President 
submits such a nomination.''.

                 TITLE XXXIV--NAVAL PETROLEUM RESERVES

Sec. 3401. Authorization of appropriations.
SEC. 3401. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    (a) Amount.--There are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary of Energy $14,000,000 for fiscal year 2020 for the purpose of 
carrying out activities under chapter 869 of title 10, United States 
Code, relating to the naval petroleum reserves.
    (b) Period of Availability.--Funds appropriated pursuant to the 
authorization of appropriations in subsection (a) shall remain 
available until expended.

                      TITLE XXXV--MARITIME MATTERS

                   Subtitle A--Maritime Administration

Sec. 3501. Authorization of the Maritime Administration.
Sec. 3502. Reauthorization of Maritime Security Program.
Sec. 3503. Maritime technical assistance program.
Sec. 3504. Appointment of candidates attending sponsored preparatory 
          school.
Sec. 3505. General support program.
Sec. 3506. Improvements to the maritime guaranteed loan program.
Sec. 3507. Requirement for small shipyard grantees.
Sec. 3508. Salvage recoveries of cargoes.
Sec. 3509. Salvage recoveries for subrogated ownership of vessels and 
          cargoes.
Sec. 3510. Maritime Occupational Safety and Health Advisory Committee.
Sec. 3511. Military to mariner.
Sec. 3512. Department of Transportation Inspector General Report.
Sec. 3513. Independent study on the United States Merchant Marine 
          Academy.
Sec. 3514. Port operations, research, and technology.
Sec. 3515. Assessment and report on strategic seaports.
Sec. 3516. Technical corrections.
Sec. 3517. United States Merchant Marine Academy sexual assault 
          prevention and response program.
Sec. 3518. Report on vessels for emerging offshore energy 
          infrastructure.
Sec. 3519. Report on United States flagged fuel tanker vessel capacity.

                    Subtitle B--Cable Security Fleet

Sec. 3521. Establishment of Cable Security Fleet.

                      Subtitle C--Maritime SAFE Act

Sec. 3531. Short titles.
Sec. 3532. Definitions.
Sec. 3533. Purposes.
Sec. 3534. Statement of policy.

  Part I--Programs to Combat IUU Fishing and Increase Maritime Security

Sec. 3541. Coordination with international organizations.
Sec. 3542. Engagement of diplomatic missions of the United States.
Sec. 3543. Assistance by Federal agencies to improve law enforcement 
          within priority regions and priority flag states.
Sec. 3544. Expansion of existing mechanisms to combat IUU fishing.
Sec. 3545. Improvement of transparency and traceability programs.
Sec. 3546. Technology programs.
Sec. 3547. Savings clause.

   Part II--Establishment of Interagency Working Group on IUU Fishing

Sec. 3551. Interagency Working Group on IUU Fishing.
Sec. 3552. Strategic plan.
Sec. 3553. Reports.
Sec. 3554. Gulf of Mexico IUU Fishing Subworking Group.

 Part III--Combating Human Trafficking in Connection With the Catching 
                   and Processing of Seafood Products

Sec. 3561. Finding.
Sec. 3562. Adding the Secretary of Commerce to the Interagency Task 
          Force to Monitor and Combat Trafficking.
Sec. 3563. Human trafficking in the seafood supply chain report.

                Part IV--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 3571. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 3572. Accounting of funds.

                  Subtitle A--Maritime Administration

SEC. 3501. AUTHORIZATION OF THE MARITIME ADMINISTRATION.
    (a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Department of Transportation for fiscal year 2020, to be available 
without fiscal year limitation if so provided in appropriations Acts, 
for programs associated with maintaining the United States Merchant 
Marine, the following amounts:
        (1) For expenses necessary for operations of the United States 
    Merchant Marine Academy, $95,944,000, of which--
            (A) $77,944,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
        2021 for Academy operations; and
            (B) $18,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        capital asset management at the Academy.
        (2) For expenses necessary to support the State maritime 
    academies, $50,280,000, of which--
            (A) $2,400,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
        2021, for the Student Incentive Program;
            (B) $6,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        direct payments to such academies;
            (C) $30,080,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        maintenance and repair of State maritime academy training 
        vessels;
            (D) $3,800,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        training ship fuel assistance; and
            (E) $8,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        offsetting the costs of training ship sharing.
        (3) For expenses necessary to support the National Security 
    Multi-Mission Vessel Program, $600,000,000, which shall remain 
    available until expended.
        (4) For expenses necessary to support Maritime Administration 
    operations and programs, $60,442,000, of which $5,000,000 shall 
    remain available until expended for activities authorized under 
    section 50307 of title 46, United States Code.
        (5) For expenses necessary to dispose of vessels in the 
    National Defense Reserve Fleet, $5,000,000, which shall remain 
    available until expended.
        (6) For expenses necessary to maintain and preserve a United 
    States flag Merchant Marine to serve the national security needs of 
    the United States under chapter 531 of title 46, United States 
    Code, $300,000,000, which shall remain available until expended.
        (7) For expenses necessary for the loan guarantee program 
    authorized under chapter 537 of title 46, United States Code, 
    $33,000,000, of which--
            (A) $30,000,000 may be used for the cost (as defined in 
        section 502(5) of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 
        U.S.C. 661a(5)) of loan guarantees under the program, which 
        shall remain available until expended; and
            (B) $3,000,000 may be used for administrative expenses 
        relating to loan guarantee commitments under the program.
        (8) For expenses necessary to provide assistance to small 
    shipyards and for maritime training programs under section 54101 of 
    title 46, United States Code, $40,000,000, which shall remain 
    available until expended.
        (9) For expenses necessary to implement the Port and Intermodal 
    Improvement Program, $500,000,000, except that no funds shall be 
    used for a grant award to purchase fully automated cargo handling 
    equipment that is remotely operated or remotely monitored with or 
    without the exercise of human intervention or control, if the 
    Secretary determines such equipment would result in a net loss of 
    jobs within a port or port terminal.
SEC. 3502. REAUTHORIZATION OF MARITIME SECURITY PROGRAM.
    (a) Award of Operating Agreements.--Section 53103 of title 46, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``2025'' each place it 
appears and inserting ``2035''.
    (b) Effectiveness of Operating Agreements.--Section 53104(a) of 
title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking ``2025'' and 
inserting ``2035''.
    (c) Payments.--Section 53106(a)(1) of title 46, United States Code, 
is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and'';
        (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``$3,700,000 for each of 
    fiscal years 2022, 2023, 2024, and 2025.'' and inserting 
    ``$5,300,000 for each of fiscal years 2022, 2023, 2024, and 
    2025;''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
            ``(D) $5,800,000 for each of fiscal years 2026, 2027, and 
        2028;
            ``(E) $6,300,000 for each of fiscal years 2029, 2030, and 
        2031; and
            ``(F) $6,800,000 for each of fiscal years 2032, 2033, 2034, 
        and 2035.''.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 53111 of title 46, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'';
        (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``$222,000,000 for each 
    fiscal year thereafter through fiscal year 2025.'' and inserting 
    ``$318,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022, 2023, 2024, and 
    2025;''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(4) $348,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2026, 2027, and 
    2028;
        ``(5) $378,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2029, 2030, and 
    2031; and
        ``(6) $408,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2032, 2033, 2034, 
    and 2035.''.
SEC. 3503. MARITIME TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.
    Section 50307 of title 46, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``The Secretary of 
    Transportation may engage in the environmental study'' and 
    inserting ``The Secretary of Transportation, acting through the 
    Maritime Administrator, shall engage in the study'';
        (2) in subsection (b)--
            (A) by striking ``may--'' and all that follows through 
        ``improvements by--'' and inserting ``shall identify, study, 
        evaluate, test, demonstrate, or improve emerging marine 
        technologies and practices to improve--'';
            (B) by inserting before subparagraph (A) the following:
        ``(1) environmental performance to meet United States Federal 
    and international standards and guidelines, including--'';
            (C) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``species; and'' and 
        all that follows through the end of the subsection and 
        inserting ``species; or
            ``(D) reducing propeller cavitation; and
        ``(2) the efficiency and safety of domestic maritime 
    industries.''.
        (3) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ``benefits'' and 
    inserting ``or other benefits to domestic maritime industries''; 
    and
        (4) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Limitations on the Use of Funds.--Not more than three percent 
of the funds appropriated to carry out this section may be used for 
administrative purposes.''.
SEC. 3504. APPOINTMENT OF CANDIDATES ATTENDING SPONSORED PREPARATORY 
SCHOOL.
    Section 51303 of title 46, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting the following:
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Appointment of Candidates Selected for Preparatory School 
Sponsorship.--The Secretary of Transportation may appoint each year as 
cadets at the United States Merchant Marine Academy not more than 40 
qualified individuals sponsored by the Academy to attend preparatory 
school during the academic year prior to entrance in the Academy, and 
who have successfully met the terms and conditions of sponsorship set 
by the Academy.''.
SEC. 3505. GENERAL SUPPORT PROGRAM.
    Section 51501 of title 46, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(c) American Maritime Centers of Excellence.--The Secretary shall 
designate each State maritime academy as an American Maritime Center of 
Excellence.''.
SEC. 3506. IMPROVEMENTS TO THE MARITIME GUARANTEED LOAN PROGRAM.
    (a) Definitions.--Section 53701 of title 46, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) by striking paragraph (5);
        (2) by redesignating paragraphs (6) through (15) as paragraphs 
    (5) through (14), respectively; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(15) Vessel of national interest.--The term `Vessel of 
    National Interest' means a vessel deemed to be of national interest 
    that meets characteristics determined by the Administrator, in 
    consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the 
    Department in which the Coast Guard is operating when it is not 
    operating as a service in the Department of the Navy, or the heads 
    of other Federal agencies, as described in section 53703(d).''.
    (b) Preferred Lender.--Subsection (a) of section 53702 of title 46, 
United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) In General.--
        ``(1) Guarantee of payments.--The Secretary or Administrator, 
    on terms the Secretary or Administrator may prescribe, may 
    guarantee or make a commitment to guarantee the payment of the 
    principal of and interest on an obligation eligible to be 
    guaranteed under this chapter. A guarantee or commitment to 
    guarantee shall cover 100 percent of the principal and interest.
        ``(2) Preferred eligible lender.--The Federal Financing Bank 
    shall be the preferred eligible lender of the principal and 
    interest of the guaranteed obligations issued under this 
    chapter.''.
    (c) Application and Administration.--Section 53703 of title 46, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in the section heading, by striking ``procedures'' and 
    inserting ``and administration''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Independent Analysis.--
        ``(1) In general.--To assess and mitigate the risks due to 
    factors associated with markets, technology, financial, or legal 
    structures related to an application or guarantee under this 
    chapter, the Secretary or Administrator may utilize third party 
    experts, including legal counsel, to--
            ``(A) process and review applications under this chapter, 
        including conducting independent analysis and review of aspects 
        of an application;
            ``(B) represent the Secretary or Administrator in 
        structuring and documenting the obligation guarantee;
            ``(C) analyze and review aspects of, structure, and 
        document the obligation guarantee during the term of the 
        guarantee;
            ``(D) recommend financial covenants or financial ratios to 
        be met by the applicant during the time a guarantee under this 
        chapter is outstanding that are--
                ``(i) based on the financial covenants or financial 
            ratios, if any, that are then applicable to the obligor 
            under private sector credit agreements; and
                ``(ii) in lieu of other financial covenants applicable 
            to the obligor under this chapter with respect to 
            requirements regarding long-term debt-to-equity, minimum 
            working capital, or minimum amount of equity; and
            ``(E) represent the Secretary or Administrator to protect 
        the security interests of the Government relating to an 
        obligation guarantee.
        ``(2) Private sector expert.--Independent analysis, review, and 
    representation conducted under this subsection shall be performed 
    by a private sector expert in the applicable field who is selected 
    by the Secretary or Administrator.
    ``(d) Vessels of National Interest.--
        ``(1) Notice of funding.--The Secretary or Administrator may 
    post a notice in the Federal Register regarding the availability of 
    funding for obligation guarantees under this chapter for the 
    construction, reconstruction, or reconditioning of a Vessel of 
    National Interest and include a timeline for the submission of 
    applications for such vessels.
        ``(2) Vessel characteristics.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Secretary or Administrator, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of 
        the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating when it is 
        not operating as service in the Department of the Navy, or the 
        heads of other Federal agencies, shall develop and publish a 
        list of vessel types that would be considered Vessels of 
        National Interest.
            ``(B) Review.--Such list shall be reviewed and revised 
        every four years or as necessary, as determined by the 
        Administrator.''.
    (d) Funding Limits.--Section 53704 of title 46, United States Code, 
is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by striking ``that amount'' and all the follows through 
        ``$850,000,000'' and inserting ``that amount, $850,000,000''; 
        and
            (B) by striking ``facilities'' and all that follows through 
        the end of the subsection and inserting ``facilities.''; and
        (2) in subsection (c)(4)--
            (A) by striking subparagraph (A); and
            (B) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) through (K), as 
        subparagraphs (A) through (J), respectively.
    (e) Eligible Purposes of Obligations.--Section 53706 of title 46, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(1)(A)--
            (A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking 
        ``(including an eligible export vessel)'';
            (B) in clause (iv) by inserting ``or'' after the semicolon;
            (C) in clause (v), by striking ``; or'' and inserting a 
        period; and
            (D) by striking clause (vi); and
        (2) in subsection (c)(1)--
            (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon;
            (B) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking the period at the 
        end and inserting ``; and''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(C) after applying subparagraphs (A) and (B), Vessels of 
        National Interest.''.
    (f) Amount of Obligations.--Section 53709(b) of title 46, United 
States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking paragraphs (3) and (6); and
        (2) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5) as paragraphs (3) 
    and (4), respectively.
    (g) Contents of Obligations.--Section 53710 of title 46, United 
States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(4)--
            (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                (i) by striking ``or, in the case of'' and all that 
            follows through ``party''; and
                (ii) by striking ``and'' after the semicolon; and
            (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(C) documented under the laws of the United States for 
        the term of the guarantee of the obligation or until the 
        obligation is paid in full, whichever is sooner.''; and
        (2) in subsection (c)--
            (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``and Provide 
        for the Financial Stability of the Obligor'' after 
        ``Interests'';
            (B) by striking ``provisions for the protection of'' and 
        inserting ``provisions, which shall include--
        ``(1) provisions for the protection of'';
            (C) by striking ``, and other matters that the Secretary or 
        Administrator may prescribe.'' and inserting, ``; and''; and
            (D) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(2) any other provisions that the Secretary or Administrator 
    may prescribe.''.
    (h) Administrative Fees.--Section 53713 of title 46, United States 
Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``reasonable for--'' and inserting `` reasonable for processing 
        the application and monitoring the loan guarantee, including 
        for--'';
            (B) in paragraph (4), by striking ``; and'' and inserting 
        ``or a deposit fund under section 53716 of this title;'';
            (C) in paragraph (5), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (D) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(6) monitoring and providing services related to the 
    obligor's compliance with any terms related to the obligations, the 
    guarantee, or maintenance of the Secretary or Administrator's 
    security interests under this chapter.''; and
        (2) in subsection (c)--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``under section 53708(d) 
        of this title'' and inserting ``under section 53703(c) of this 
        title'';
            (B) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (3) as 
        subparagraphs (A) through (C), respectively, and adjusting the 
        margins accordingly;
            (C) by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting the 
        following:
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary''; and
            (D) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(2) Fee limitation inapplicable.--Fees collected under this 
    subsection are not subject to the limitation of subsection (b).''.
    (i) Best Practices; Eligible Export Vessels.--Chapter 537 of title 
46, United States Code, is further amended--
        (1) in subchapter I, by adding at the end the following new 
    section:
``Sec. 53719. Best practices
    ``The Secretary or Administrator shall ensure that all standard 
documents and agreements that relate to loan guarantees made pursuant 
to this chapter are reviewed and updated every four years to ensure 
that such documents and agreements meet the current commercial best 
practices to the extent permitted by law.''; and
        (2) in subchapter III, by striking section 53732.
    (j) Expedited Consideration of Low-risk Applications.--
        (1) In general.--In accordance with the requirements of this 
    subsection, the Administrator shall establish an administrative 
    process and issue guidance for the expedited consideration of low-
    risk applications submitted under chapter 537 of title 46, United 
    States Code.
        (2) Stakeholder comment.--Not later than 180 days after the 
    date of enactment of this section, the Administrator of the 
    Maritime Administration shall publish in the Federal Register a 
    notice of a 45-day public comment period to request stakeholder 
    input and recommendations to establish the administrative process 
    required under this subsection, including proposals to assist 
    applicants--
            (A) in the development and submission of initial 
        applications;
            (B) in meeting requests for supplemental information made 
        by the Administrator; and
            (C) to comply with other requirements made by the 
        Administrator to ensure the expedited consideration of 
        applications.
        (3) Industry best practices.--The administrative process 
    established under this subsection shall utilize, to the extent 
    practicable, relevant Federal and industry best practices found in 
    the maritime and shipbuilding industries.
        (4) Final guidance.--Not later than 90 days after the 
    conclusion of the public comment period required under paragraph 
    (2), the Administrator shall publish in the Federal Register final 
    guidance to assist applicants in the preparation and filing of 
    applications under this subsection.
    (k) Congressional Notification.--
        (1) Notification.--Not less than 60 days before reorganizing or 
    consolidating the activities or personnel covered under chapter 537 
    of title 46, United States Code, the Secretary of Transportation 
    shall notify, in writing, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
    Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation 
    and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives of the proposed 
    reorganization or consolidation.
        (2) Contents.--Each notification under paragraph (1) shall 
    include an evaluation of, and justification for, the reorganization 
    or consolidation.
    (l) Clerical Amendments.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 537 of title 46, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by inserting after the item relating to section 53718 the 
    following new item:

``53719. Best practices.''; and

        (2) by striking the item relating to section 53732.
SEC. 3507. REQUIREMENT FOR SMALL SHIPYARD GRANTEES.
    (a) In General.--Section 54101(d) of title 46, United States Code, 
is amended--
        (1) by striking ``Grants awarded'' and inserting the following:
        ``(1) In general.--Grants awarded''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(2) Buy america.--
            ``(A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), no funds 
        may be obligated by the Administrator of the Maritime 
        Administration under this section, unless each product and 
        material purchased with those funds (including products and 
        materials purchased by a grantee), and including any 
        commercially available off-the-shelf item, is--
                ``(i) an unmanufactured article, material, or supply 
            that has been mined or produced in the United States; or
                ``(ii) a manufactured article, material, or supply that 
            has been manufactured in the United States substantially 
            all from articles, materials, or supplies mined, produced, 
            or manufactured in the United States.
            ``(B) Exceptions.--
                ``(i) In general.--Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), 
            the requirements of that subparagraph shall not apply with 
            respect to a particular product or material if the 
            Administrator determines--

                    ``(I) that the application of those requirements 
                would be inconsistent with the public interest;
                    ``(II) that such product or material is not 
                available in the United States in sufficient and 
                reasonably available quantities, of a satisfactory 
                quality, or on a timely basis; or
                    ``(III) that inclusion of a domestic product or 
                material will increase the cost of that product or 
                material by more than 25 percent, with respect to a 
                certain contract between a grantee and that grantee's 
                supplier.

                ``(ii) Federal register.--A determination made by the 
            Administrator under this subparagraph shall be published in 
            the Federal Register.
            ``(C) Definitions.--ln this paragraph:
                ``(i) The term `commercially available off-the-shelf 
            item' means--

                    ``(I) any item of supply (including construction 
                material) that is--

                        ``(aa) a commercial item, as defined by section 
                    2.101 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations (as 
                    in effect on the date of the enactment of the 
                    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
                    2020); and
                        ``(bb) sold in substantial quantities in the 
                    commercial marketplace; and

                    ``(II) does not include bulk cargo, as defined in 
                section 40102(4) of this title, such as agricultural 
                products and petroleum products.

                ``(ii) The term `product or material' means an article, 
            material, or supply brought to the site by the recipient 
            for incorporation into the building, work, or project. The 
            term also includes an item brought to the site preassembled 
            from articles, materials, or supplies. However, emergency 
            life safety systems, such as emergency lighting, fire 
            alarm, and audio evacuation systems, that are discrete 
            systems incorporated into a public building or work and 
            that are produced as complete systems, are evaluated as a 
            single and distinct construction material regardless of 
            when or how the individual parts or components of those 
            systems are delivered to the construction site.
                ``(iii) The term `United States' includes the District 
            of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Northern 
            Mariana Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Virgin 
            Islands.''.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 54101(i) of title 46, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking ``2018, 2019, and 2020'' and inserting ``2020 
    and 2021''; and
        (2) by striking ``$35,000,000'' and inserting ``$40,000,000''.
    (c) Notification of Committees of Certain Proposed Obligations.--
The first section of Public Law 85-804 (50 U.S.C. 1431) is amended, in 
the third sentence, by inserting ``and in addition, the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
with respect to contracts, or modifications or amendments to contracts, 
or advance payments proposed to be made under this section by the 
Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating with 
respect to the acquisition of Coast Guard cutters or aircraft,'' after 
``House of Representatives''.
SEC. 3508. SALVAGE RECOVERIES OF CARGOES.
    Section 57107 of title 46, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(c) Salvaging Cargoes.--
        ``(1) Reimbursable agreements.--The Secretary of 
    Transportation, acting through the Administrator of the Maritime 
    Administration, may enter into reimbursable agreements with other 
    Federal entities to provide legal services to such entities 
    relating to the salvaging of cargoes for which such entities have 
    custody, or control, or for which for such entities have trustee 
    responsibilities from vessels in the custody or control of the 
    Maritime Administration or its predecessor agencies. The Secretary 
    may receive and retain reimbursement from such entities for all 
    costs incurred related to the provision of such services.
        ``(2) Amounts received.--Amounts received as reimbursements 
    under this subsection shall be credited to the fund or account that 
    was used to cover the costs incurred by the Secretary or, if the 
    period of availability of obligations for that appropriation has 
    expired, to the appropriation of funds that is currently available 
    to the Secretary for substantially the same purpose. Amounts so 
    credited shall be merged with amounts in such fund or account and 
    shall be available for the same purposes, and subject to the same 
    conditions and limitations, as amounts in such fund or account.
        ``(3) Advance payments.--Payments made in advance shall be for 
    any part of the estimated cost as determined by the Secretary of 
    Transportation. Adjustments to the amounts paid in advance shall be 
    made as agreed to by the Secretary of Transportation and the head 
    of the ordering agency or unit based on the actual cost of goods or 
    services provided.''.
SEC. 3509. SALVAGE RECOVERIES FOR SUBROGATED OWNERSHIP OF VESSELS AND 
CARGOES.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 571 of title 46, United States Code, as 
amended by this title, is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new section:
``SEC. 57111. SALVAGE RECOVERIES FOR SUBROGATED OWNERSHIP OF VESSELS 
AND CARGOES.
    ``(a) Salvage Agreements.--The Secretary of Transportation is 
authorized to enter into marine salvage agreements for the recoveries, 
sale, and disposal of sunken or damaged vessels, cargoes, or properties 
owned or insured by or on behalf of the Maritime Administration, the 
United States Shipping Board, the U.S. Shipping Bureau, the United 
States Maritime Commission, or the War Shipping Administration.
    ``(b) Military Craft.--The Secretary of Transportation shall 
consult with the Secretary of the military department concerned prior 
to engaging in or authorizing any activity under subsection (a) that 
will disturb sunken military craft, as such term is defined in section 
1408(3) of the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2005 (Public Law 108-375; 10 U.S.C. 113 note).
    ``(c) Recoveries.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
net proceeds from salvage agreements entered into as authorized in 
subsection (a) shall remain available until expended and be distributed 
as follows:
        ``(1) Fifty percent shall be available to the Administrator of 
    the Maritime Administration for the payment or reimbursement of 
    expenses incurred by or on behalf of State maritime academies or 
    the United States Merchant Marine Academy for facility and training 
    ship maintenance, repair, and modernization, and for the purchase 
    of simulators and fuel.
        ``(2) The remainder shall be distributed for maritime heritage 
    preservation to the Department of the Interior for grants as 
    authorized by section 308703 of title 54.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter, as amended by this title, is further amended by adding at 
the end the following new item:

``57111. Salvage recoveries for subrogated ownership of vessels and 
          cargoes.''.
SEC. 3510. MARITIME OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
    Section 7 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (29 
U.S.C. 656) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) There is established a Maritime Occupational Safety and 
Health Advisory Committee, which shall be a continuing body and shall 
provide advice to the Secretary in formulating maritime industry 
standards and regarding matters pertaining to the administration of 
this Act related to the maritime industry. The composition of such 
advisory committee shall be consistent with the advisory committees 
established under subsection (b). A member of the advisory committee 
who is otherwise qualified may continue to serve until a successor is 
appointed. The Secretary may promulgate or amend regulations as 
necessary to implement this subsection.''.
SEC. 3511. MILITARY TO MARINER.
    (a) Credentialing Support.--Not later than one year after the date 
of enactment of this title, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of 
the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating when it is not 
operating as a service in the Department of the Navy, the Secretary of 
Commerce, and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, with respect 
to the applicable services in their respective departments, and in 
coordination with one another and with the United States Committee on 
the Marine Transportation System, and in consultation with the Merchant 
Marine Personnel Advisory Committee, shall, consistent with applicable 
law, identify all training and experience within the applicable service 
that may qualify for merchant mariner credentialing and submit a list 
of all identified training and experience to the United States Coast 
Guard National Maritime Center for a determination of whether such 
training and experience counts for credentialing purposes.
    (b) Review of Applicable Service.--The United States Coast Guard 
Commandant shall make a determination of whether training and 
experience counts for credentialing purposes, as described in 
subsection (a), not later than 6 months after the date on which the 
United States Coast Guard National Maritime Center receives a 
submission under subsection (a) identifying a training or experience 
and requesting such a determination.
    (c) Fees and Services.--The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of 
the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating when it is not 
operating as a service in the Department of the Navy, and the Secretary 
of Commerce, with respect to the applicable services in their 
respective departments, shall--
        (1) take all necessary and appropriate actions to provide for 
    the waiver of fees through the National Maritime Center license 
    evaluation, issuance, and examination for members of the uniformed 
    services on active duty, if a waiver is authorized and appropriate, 
    and, if a waiver is not granted, take all necessary and appropriate 
    actions to provide for the payment of fees for members of the 
    uniformed services on active duty by the applicable service to the 
    fullest extent permitted by law;
        (2) direct the applicable services to take all necessary and 
    appropriate actions to provide for Transportation Worker 
    Identification Credential cards for members of the uniformed 
    services on active duty pursuing or possessing a mariner 
    credential, such as implementation of an equal exchange process for 
    members of the uniformed services on active duty at no or minimal 
    cost;
        (3) ensure that members of the applicable services who are to 
    be discharged or released from active duty and who request 
    certification or verification of sea service be provided such 
    certification or verification no later than one month after 
    discharge or release;
        (4) ensure the applicable services have developed, or continue 
    to operate, as appropriate, the online resource known as 
    Credentialing Opportunities On-Line to support separating members 
    of the uniformed services who are seeking information and 
    assistance on merchant mariner credentialing; and
        (5) not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this 
    section, take all necessary and appropriate actions to review and 
    implement service-related medical certifications to merchant 
    mariner credential requirements.
    (d) Advancing Military to Mariner Within the Employer Agencies.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the 
    Department in which the Coast Guard is operating when it is not 
    operating as a service in the Department of the Navy, and the 
    Secretary of Commerce shall have direct hiring authority to employ 
    separated members of the uniformed services with valid merchant 
    mariner licenses or sea service experience in support of United 
    States national maritime needs, including the Army Corps of 
    Engineers, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and the National 
    Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
        (2) Appointments of retired members of the armed forces.--
    Except in the case of positions in the Senior Executive Service, 
    the requirements of section 3326(b) of title 5, United States Code, 
    shall not apply with respect to the hiring of a separated member of 
    the uniformed services under paragraph (1).
    (e) Separated Member of the Uniformed Services.--In this section, 
the term ``separated member of the uniformed services'' means an 
individual who--
        (1) is retiring or is retired as a member of the uniformed 
    services;
        (2) is voluntarily separating or voluntarily separated from the 
    uniformed services at the end of enlistment or service obligation; 
    or
        (3) is administratively separating or has administratively 
    separated from the uniformed services with an honorable or general 
    discharge characterization.
SEC. 3512. DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION INSPECTOR GENERAL REPORT.
    The Inspector General of the Department of Transportation shall--
        (1) not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this 
    title, initiate an audit of the Maritime Administration's actions 
    to address only those recommendations from Chapter 3 and 
    recommendations 5-1, 5-2, 5-3, 5-4, 5-5, and 5-6 identified by a 
    National Academy of Public Administration panel in the November 
    2017 report entitled ``Maritime Administration: Defining its 
    Mission, Aligning its Programs, and Meeting its Objectives''; and
        (2) submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
    Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation 
    and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report 
    containing the results of that audit once the audit is completed.
SEC. 3513. INDEPENDENT STUDY ON THE UNITED STATES MERCHANT MARINE 
ACADEMY.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this title, the Secretary of Transportation shall seek to 
enter into an agreement with the National Academy of Public 
Administration (referred to in this section as the ``Academy'') to 
carry out the activities described in this section.
    (b) Study Elements.--In accordance with the agreement described in 
subsection (a), the Academy shall conduct a study of the United States 
Merchant Marine Academy that consists of the following:
        (1) A comprehensive assessment of the United States Merchant 
    Marine Academy's systems, training, facilities, infrastructure, 
    information technology, and stakeholder engagement.
        (2) Identification of needs and opportunities for modernization 
    to help the United States Merchant Marine Academy keep pace with 
    more modern campuses.
        (3) Development of an action plan for the United States 
    Merchant Marine Academy with specific recommendations for--
            (A) improvements or updates relating to the opportunities 
        described in paragraph (2); and
            (B) systemic changes needed to help the United States 
        Merchant Marine Academy achieve its mission of inspiring and 
        educating the next generation of the mariner workforce on a 
        long-term basis.
    (c) Deadline and Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
the agreement described in subsection (a), the Academy shall prepare 
and submit to the Administrator of the Maritime Administration a report 
containing the action plan described in subsection (b)(3), including 
specific findings and recommendations.
SEC. 3514. PORT OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND TECHNOLOGY.
    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Ports 
Improvement Act''.
    (b) Port and Intermodal Improvement Program.--Section 50302 of 
title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking subsection (c) and 
inserting the following:
    ``(c) Port and Intermodal Improvement Program.--
        ``(1) General authority.--Subject to the availability of 
    appropriations, the Secretary of Transportation shall make grants, 
    on a competitive basis, to eligible applicants to assist in funding 
    eligible projects for the purpose of improving the safety, 
    efficiency, or reliability of the movement of goods through ports 
    and intermodal connections to ports.
        ``(2) Eligible applicant.--The Secretary may make a grant under 
    this subsection to the following:
            ``(A) A State.
            ``(B) A political subdivision of a State, or a local 
        government.
            ``(C) A public agency or publicly chartered authority 
        established by 1 or more States.
            ``(D) A special purpose district with a transportation 
        function.
            ``(E) An Indian Tribe (as defined in section 4 of the 
        Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 
        U.S.C. 5304), without regard to capitalization), or a 
        consortium of Indian Tribes.
            ``(F) A multistate or multijurisdictional group of entities 
        described in this paragraph.
            ``(G) A lead entity described in subparagraph (A), (B), 
        (C), (D), (E), or (F) jointly with a private entity or group of 
        private entities.
        ``(3) Eligible projects.--The Secretary may make a grant under 
    this subsection--
            ``(A) for a project, or package of projects, that--
                ``(i) is either--

                    ``(I) within the boundary of a port; or
                    ``(II) outside the boundary of a port, but is 
                directly related to port operations or to an intermodal 
                connection to a port; and

                ``(ii) will be used to improve the safety, efficiency, 
            or reliability of--

                    ``(I) the loading and unloading of goods at the 
                port, such as for marine terminal equipment;
                    ``(II) the movement of goods into, out of, around, 
                or within a port, such as for highway or rail 
                infrastructure, intermodal facilities, freight 
                intelligent transportation systems, and digital 
                infrastructure systems; or
                    ``(III) environmental mitigation measures and 
                operational improvements directly related to enhancing 
                the efficiency of ports and intermodal connections to 
                ports; or

            ``(B) notwithstanding paragraph (6)(A)(v), to provide 
        financial assistance to 1 or more projects under subparagraph 
        (A) for development phase activities, including planning, 
        feasibility analysis, revenue forecasting, environmental 
        review, permitting, and preliminary engineering and design 
        work.
        ``(4) Prohibited uses.--A grant award under this subsection may 
    not be used--
            ``(A) to finance or refinance the construction, 
        reconstruction, reconditioning, or purchase of a vessel that is 
        eligible for such assistance under chapter 537, unless the 
        Secretary determines such vessel--
                ``(i) is necessary for a project described in paragraph 
            (3)(A)(ii)(III) of this subsection; and
                ``(ii) is not receiving assistance under chapter 537; 
            or
            ``(B) for any project within a small shipyard (as defined 
        in section 54101).
        ``(5) Applications and process.--
            ``(A) Applications.--To be eligible for a grant under this 
        subsection, an eligible applicant shall submit to the Secretary 
        an application in such form, at such time, and containing such 
        information as the Secretary considers appropriate.
            ``(B) Solicitation process.--Not later than 60 days after 
        the date that amounts are made available for grants under this 
        subsection for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall solicit grant 
        applications for eligible projects in accordance with this 
        subsection.
        ``(6) Project selection criteria.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Secretary may select a project 
        described in paragraph (3) for funding under this subsection if 
        the Secretary determines that--
                ``(i) the project improves the safety, efficiency, or 
            reliability of the movement of goods through a port or 
            intermodal connection to a port;
                ``(ii) the project is cost effective;
                ``(iii) the eligible applicant has authority to carry 
            out the project;
                ``(iv) the eligible applicant has sufficient funding 
            available to meet the matching requirements under paragraph 
            (8);
                ``(v) the project will be completed without 
            unreasonable delay; and
                ``(vi) the project cannot be easily and efficiently 
            completed without Federal funding or financial assistance 
            available to the project sponsor.
            ``(B) Additional considerations.--In selecting projects 
        described in paragraph (3) for funding under this subsection, 
        the Secretary shall give substantial weight to--
                ``(i) the utilization of non-Federal contributions; and
                ``(ii) the net benefits of the funds awarded under this 
            subsection, considering the cost-benefit analysis of the 
            project, as applicable.
            ``(C) Small projects.--The Secretary may waive the cost-
        benefit analysis under subparagraph (A)(ii), and establish a 
        simplified, alternative basis for determining whether a project 
        is cost effective, for a small project described in paragraph 
        (7)(B).
        ``(7) Allocation of funds.--
            ``(A) Geographic distribution.--Not more than 25 percent of 
        the amounts made available for grants under this subsection for 
        a fiscal year may be used to make grants for projects in any 1 
        State.
            ``(B) Small projects.--The Secretary shall reserve 25 
        percent of the amounts made available for grants under this 
        subsection each fiscal year to make grants for eligible 
        projects described in paragraph (3)(A) that request the lesser 
        of--
                ``(i) 10 percent of the amounts made available for 
            grants under this subsection for a fiscal year; or
                ``(ii) $10,000,000.
            ``(C) Development phase activities.--Not more than 10 
        percent of the amounts made available for grants under this 
        subsection for a fiscal year may be used to make grants for 
        development phase activities under paragraph (3)(B).
        ``(8) Federal share of total project costs.--
            ``(A) Total project costs.--To be eligible for a grant 
        under this subsection, an eligible applicant shall submit to 
        the Secretary an estimate of the total costs of a project under 
        this subsection based on the best available information, 
        including any available engineering studies, studies of 
        economic feasibility, environmental analyses, and information 
        on the expected use of equipment or facilities.
            ``(B) Federal share.--
                ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in clause (ii), 
            the Federal share of the total costs of a project under 
            this subsection shall not exceed 80 percent.
                ``(ii) Rural areas.--The Secretary may increase the 
            Federal share of costs above 80 percent for a project 
            located in a rural area.
        ``(9) Procedural safeguards.--The Secretary shall issue 
    guidelines to establish appropriate accounting, reporting, and 
    review procedures to ensure that--
            ``(A) grant funds are used for the purposes for which those 
        funds were made available;
            ``(B) each grantee properly accounts for all expenditures 
        of grant funds; and
            ``(C) grant funds not used for such purposes and amounts 
        not obligated or expended are returned.
        ``(10) Grant conditions.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall require as a 
        condition of making a grant under this subsection that a 
        grantee--
                ``(i) maintain such records as the Secretary considers 
            necessary;
                ``(ii) make the records described in clause (i) 
            available for review and audit by the Secretary; and
                ``(iii) periodically report to the Secretary such 
            information as the Secretary considers necessary to assess 
            progress.
            ``(B) Additional requirement.--The Secretary shall apply 
        the same requirements of section 117(k) of title 23, United 
        States Code, to a port project assisted in whole or in part 
        under this section as the Secretary does a port-related freight 
        project under section 117 of title 23, United States Code.
            ``(C) Construction, repair, or alteration of vessels.--With 
        regard to the construction, repair, or alteration of vessels, 
        the same requirements of section 117(k) of title 23, United 
        States Code, shall apply regardless of whether the location of 
        contract performance is known when bids for such work are 
        solicited.
        ``(11) Administration.--
            ``(A) Administrative and oversight costs.--The Secretary 
        may retain not more than 2 percent of the amounts appropriated 
        for each fiscal year under this subsection for the 
        administrative and oversight costs incurred by the Secretary to 
        carry out this subsection.
            ``(B) Availability.--
                ``(i) In general.--Amounts appropriated for carrying 
            out this subsection shall remain available until expended.
                ``(ii) Unexpended funds.--Amounts awarded as a grant 
            under this subsection that are not expended by the grantee 
            during the 5-year period following the date of the award 
            shall remain available to the Secretary for use for grants 
            under this subsection in a subsequent fiscal year.
        ``(12) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            ``(A) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        `appropriate committees of Congress' means--
                ``(i) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
            Transportation of the Senate; and
                ``(ii) the Committee on Transportation and 
            Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.
            ``(B) Port.--The term `port' includes--
                ``(i) any port on the navigable waters of the United 
            States; and
                ``(ii) any harbor, marine terminal, or other shore side 
            facility used principally for the movement of goods on 
            inland waters.
            ``(C) Project.--The term `project' includes construction, 
        reconstruction, environmental rehabilitation, acquisition of 
        property, including land related to the project and 
        improvements to the land, equipment acquisition, and 
        operational improvements.
            ``(D) Rural area.--The term `rural area' means an area that 
        is outside an urbanized area.
    ``(d) Additional Authority of the Secretary.--In carrying out this 
section, the Secretary may--
        ``(1) coordinate with other Federal agencies to expedite the 
    process established under the National Environmental Policy Act of 
    1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) for the improvement of port 
    facilities to improve the efficiency of the transportation system, 
    to increase port security, or to provide greater access to port 
    facilities;
        ``(2) seek to coordinate all reviews or requirements with 
    appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies; and
        ``(3) in addition to any financial assistance provided under 
    subsection (c), provide such technical assistance to port 
    authorities or commissions or their subdivisions and agents.''.
    (c) Savings Clause.--A repeal made by subsection (b) of this 
section shall not affect amounts apportioned or allocated before the 
effective date of the repeal. Such apportioned or allocated funds shall 
continue to be subject to the requirements to which the funds were 
subject under--
        (1) section 50302(c) of title 46, United States Code, as in 
    effect on the day before the date of enactment of this title;
        (2) section 9008 of the SAFETEA-LU Act (Public Law 109-59; 119 
    Stat. 1926);
        (3) section 10205 of the SAFETEA-LU Act (Public Law 109-59; 119 
    Stat. 1934); and
        (4) section 3512 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (48 U.S.C. 1421r).
    (d) Remedial Actions.--Section 533 of the Coast Guard Authorization 
Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-120; 130 Stat. 74) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
    ``(f) Remedial Actions.--For purposes of the conveyances under this 
section, the remedial actions required under section 120(h) of the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act 
of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9620(h)) may be completed by the United States Coast 
Guard after the date of such conveyance and a deed entered into for 
such conveyance shall include a clause granting the United States Coast 
Guard access to the property in any case in which remedial action or 
corrective action is found to be necessary after the date of such 
conveyance.''.
    (e) Environmental Compliance.--Section 534(a) of the Coast Guard 
Authorization Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-120; 42 U.S.C. 9620 note) is 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``Nothing'' and inserting ``After the date on 
    which the Secretary of the Interior conveys land under section 533 
    of this Act, nothing''; and
        (2) by inserting ``, with respect to contaminants on such land 
    prior to the date on which the land is conveyed'' before the 
    period.
SEC. 3515. ASSESSMENT AND REPORT ON STRATEGIC SEAPORTS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this title, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Armed Services and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate a report on port facilities used for 
military purposes at ports designated by the Department of Defense as 
strategic seaports.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include, 
with respect to port facilities included in the report, the following:
        (1) An assessment of whether there are structural integrity or 
    other deficiencies in such facilities.
        (2) If there are such deficiencies--
            (A) an assessment of infrastructure improvements to such 
        facilities that would be needed to meet, directly or 
        indirectly, national security and readiness requirements;
            (B) an assessment of the impact on operational readiness of 
        the Armed Forces if such improvements are not undertaken; and
            (C) an identification of, to the maximum extent practical, 
        all potential funding sources for such improvements from 
        existing authorities.
        (3) An identification of the support that would be appropriate 
    for the Department of Defense to provide in the execution of the 
    responsibilities of the Secretary of Transportation under section 
    50302 of title 46, United States Code, with respect to such 
    facilities.
        (4) If additional statutory or administrative authorities would 
    be required for the provision of support as described in paragraph 
    (3), recommendations for legislative or administrative action to 
    establish such authorities.
    (c) Consultation.--The Secretary of Defense shall prepare the 
report required by subsection (a) in consultation with the Maritime 
Administrator and the individual responsible for each port facility 
described in such subsection.
SEC. 3516. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.
    (a) Office of Personnel Management Guidance.--Not later than 120 
days after the date of the enactment of this title, the Director of the 
Office of Personnel Management, in consultation with the Administrator 
of the Maritime Administration, shall identify key skills and 
competencies necessary to maintain a balance of expertise in merchant 
marine seagoing service and strategic sealift military service in each 
of the following positions within the Office of the Commandant of the 
Merchant Marine Academy:
        (1) Commandant.
        (2) Deputy Commandant.
        (3) Tactical company officers.
        (4) Regimental officers.
    (b) Sea Year Compliance.--Section 3514(a)(1)(A) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 46 
U.S.C. 51318 note) is amended by inserting ``domestic and 
international'' after ``criteria that''.
SEC. 3517. UNITED STATES MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY SEXUAL ASSAULT 
PREVENTION AND RESPONSE PROGRAM.
    (a) Implementation of Recommendations.--The Secretary of 
Transportation shall ensure that, not later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this title, the recommendations in report of 
the Inspector General of the Department of Transportation on the 
effectiveness sexual assault prevention and response program of the 
United States Merchant Marine Academy (mandated under section 3512 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 
114-328; 130 Stat. 2786)), are fully implemented.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this title, the Secretary of Transportation shall submit 
to Congress a report that includes--
        (1) confirmation that the recommendations described in 
    subsection (a) have been fully implemented, and explaining how 
    those recommendations have been implemented; or
        (2) if such recommendations have not been fully implemented as 
    of the date of the report, an explanation of why such 
    recommendations have not been fully implemented and a description 
    of the resources that are needed to fully implement such 
    recommendations.
SEC. 3518. REPORT ON VESSELS FOR EMERGING OFFSHORE ENERGY 
INFRASTRUCTURE.
    (a) In General.--Not later than six months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
of the Senate, the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
Senate, and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the 
House of Representatives a report on the need for vessels documented 
under chapter 121 of title 46, United States Code, to install, operate, 
and maintain emerging offshore energy infrastructure, including 
offshore wind energy.
    (b) Contents.--The report required by subsection (a) shall 
include--
        (1) an inventory of vessels documented under chapter 121 of 
    title 46, United States Code, (including existing vessels and 
    vessels that have the potential to be refurbished) to install, 
    operate, and maintain such emerging offshore energy infrastructure;
        (2) a projection of existing vessels needed to meet such 
    emerging offshore energy needs over the next 10 years;
        (3) a summary of actions taken or proposed by offshore energy 
    developers and producers, the United States domestic shipbuilding 
    industry, and United States coastwise qualified operators to ensure 
    sufficient vessel capacity in compliance with United States 
    coastwise laws; and
        (4) a description of the potential benefits to the United 
    States maritime and shipbuilding industries and to the United 
    States economy associated with the use of United States coastwise 
    qualified vessels to support offshore energy development and 
    production.
SEC. 3519. REPORT ON UNITED STATES FLAGGED FUEL TANKER VESSEL CAPACITY.
    (a) Report Required.--Concurrent with the budget of the President 
for fiscal year 2021, as submitted to Congress under section 1105 of 
title 31, United States Code, the Secretary of Defense shall, in 
consultation with the Secretary of Transportation, submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report on the capabilities of the 
United States to maintain adequate United States-flagged fuel tanker 
vessel capacity to support the full range of anticipated military 
operations over each period as follows:
        (1) In 2020.
        (2) Between 2020 and 2025.
        (3) Between 2020 and 2030.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include, 
for each period specified in that subsection, the following:
        (1) A description of current and projected United States-
    flagged fuel tanker vessel capacity.
        (2) A description of current and projected United States 
    military needs for United States-flagged fuel tanker vessel 
    capacity, including the most stressing peacetime and wartime 
    requirements.
        (3) A description and assessment of the number of foreign-
    flagged tanker vessels required to address United States military 
    needs described pursuant to paragraph (2), including the most 
    stressing peacetime and wartime requirements.
        (4) An identification and assessment of any gaps in the 
    capacity described pursuant to paragraph (1) to meet the United 
    States military needs described pursuant to paragraph (2), 
    including quantities of tanker vessels, as well as an assessment of 
    the risk to military objectives due to reliance on foreign-flagged 
    tanker vessels described pursuant to paragraph (3).
        (5) A description and assessment of options to address the gaps 
    identified pursuant to paragraph (4), including the establishment 
    of a program for United States-flagged fuel tanker vessels modeled 
    on the Maritime Security Program.
        (6) Such recommendations as the Secretary of Defense considers 
    appropriate in light of the matters set forth in the report.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
        and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and 
        the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
        Representatives.
        (2) The term ``Maritime Security Program'' means the program in 
    connection with the Maritime Security Fleet under chapter 531 of 
    title 46, United States Code.

                    Subtitle B--Cable Security Fleet

SEC. 3521. ESTABLISHMENT OF CABLE SECURITY FLEET.
    (a) In General.--Title 46, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting before chapter 533 the following new chapter:

                  ``CHAPTER 532--CABLE SECURITY FLEET

``Sec.
``53201. Definitions.
``53202. Establishment of the Cable Security Fleet.
``53203. Award of operating agreements.
``53204. Effectiveness of operating agreements.
``53205. Obligations and rights under operating agreements.
``53206. Payments.
``53207. National security requirements.
``53208. Regulatory relief.
``53209. Authorization of appropriations.

``Sec. 53201. Definitions
    ``In this chapter:
        ``(1) Cable services.--The term `cable services' means the 
    installation, maintenance, or repair of submarine cables and 
    related equipment, and related cable vessel operations.
        ``(2) Cable vessel.--The term `cable vessel' means a vessel--
            ``(A) classed as a cable ship or cable vessel by, and 
        designed in accordance with the rules of, the American Bureau 
        of Shipping, or another classification society accepted by the 
        Secretary; and
            ``(B) capable of installing, maintaining, and repairing 
        submarine cables.
        ``(3) Cable fleet.--The term `Cable Fleet' means the Cable 
    Security Fleet established under section 53202(a).
        ``(4) Contingency agreement.--The term `Contingency Agreement' 
    means the agreement required by section 53207.
        ``(5) Contractor.--The term `Contractor' means an owner or 
    operator of a vessel that enters into an Operating Agreement for a 
    cable vessel with the Secretary under section 53203.
        ``(6) Fiscal year.--The term `fiscal year' means any annual 
    period beginning on October 1 and ending on September 30.
        ``(7) Operating agency.--The term `Operating Agency' means that 
    agency or component of the Department of Defense so designated by 
    the Secretary of Defense under this chapter.
        ``(8) Operating agreement or agreement.--The terms `Operating 
    Agreement' or `Agreement' mean the agreement required by section 
    53203.
        ``(9) Person.--The term `person' includes corporations, 
    partnerships, and associations existing under or authorized by the 
    laws of the United States, or any State, Territory, District, or 
    possession thereof, or of any foreign country.
        ``(10) Secretary.--The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of 
    Transportation.
        ``(11) United states.--The term `United States' includes the 
    States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, 
    the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Virgin 
    Islands.
        ``(12) United states citizen trust.--
            ``(A) Subject to paragraph (C), the term `United States 
        citizen trust' means a trust that is qualified under this 
        paragraph.
            ``(B) A trust is qualified under this paragraph with 
        respect to a vessel only if--
                ``(i) it was created under the laws of a state of the 
            United States;
                ``(ii) each of the trustees is a citizen of the United 
            States; and
                ``(iii) the application for documentation of the vessel 
            under chapter 121 of this title includes the affidavit of 
            each trustee stating that the trustee is not aware of any 
            reason involving a beneficiary of the trust that is not a 
            citizen of the United States, or involving any other person 
            that is not a citizen of the United States, as a result of 
            which the beneficiary or other person would hold more than 
            25 percent of the aggregate power to influence, or limit 
            the exercise of the authority of, the trustee with respect 
            to matters involving any ownership or operation of the 
            vessel that may adversely affect the interests of the 
            United States.
            ``(C) If any person that is not a citizen of the United 
        States has authority to direct, or participate in directing, 
        the trustee for a trust in matters involving any ownership or 
        operation of the vessel that may adversely affect the interests 
        of the United States or in removing a trustee for a trust 
        without cause, either directly or indirectly through the 
        control of another person, the trust is not qualified under 
        this paragraph unless the trust instrument provides that 
        persons who are not citizens of the United States may not hold 
        more than 25 percent of the aggregate authority to direct or 
        remove a trustee.
            ``(D) This paragraph shall not be considered to prohibit a 
        person who is not a citizen of the United States from holding 
        more than 25 percent of the beneficial interest in a trust.
``Sec. 53202. Establishment of the Cable Security Fleet
    ``(a) In General.--(1) The Secretary, in consultation with the 
Operating Agency, shall establish a fleet of active, commercially 
viable, cable vessels to meet national security requirements. The fleet 
shall consist of privately owned, United States-documented cable 
vessels for which there are in effect Operating Agreements under this 
chapter, and shall be known as the Cable Security Fleet.
    ``(2) The Fleet described under this section shall include two 
vessels.
    ``(b) Vessel Eligibility.--A cable vessel is eligible to be 
included in the Fleet if--
        ``(1) the vessel meets the requirements of paragraph (1), (2), 
    (3), or (4) of subsection (c);
        ``(2) the vessel is operated (or in the case of a vessel to be 
    constructed, will be operated) in commercial service providing 
    cable services;
        ``(3) the vessel is 40 years of age or less on the date the 
    vessel is included in the Fleet;
        ``(4) the vessel is--
            ``(A) determined by the Operating Agency to be suitable for 
        engaging in cable services by the United States in the interest 
        of national security; and
            ``(B) determined by the Secretary to be commercially 
        viable, whether independently or taking any payments which are 
        the consequence of participation in the Cable Fleet into 
        account; and
        ``(5) the vessel--
            ``(A) is a United States-documented vessel; or
            ``(B) is not a United States-documented vessel, but--
                ``(i) the owner of the vessel has demonstrated an 
            intent to have the vessel documented under chapter 121 of 
            this title if it is included in the Cable Fleet; and
                ``(ii) at the time an Operating Agreement is entered 
            into under this chapter, the vessel is eligible for 
            documentation under chapter 121 of this title.
    ``(c) Requirements Regarding Citizenship of Owners and Operators.--
        ``(1) Vessels owned and operated by section 50501 citizens.--A 
    vessel meets the requirements of this paragraph if, during the 
    period of an Operating Agreement under this chapter that applies to 
    the vessel, the vessel will be owned and operated by one or more 
    persons that are citizens of the United states under section 50501 
    of this title.
        ``(2) Vessels owned by a section 50501 citizen, or united 
    states citizen trust, and chartered to a documentation citizen.--A 
    vessel meets the requirements of this paragraph if--
            ``(A) during the period of an Operating Agreement under 
        this chapter that applies to the vessel, the vessel will be--
                ``(i) owned by a person that is a citizen of the United 
            States under section 50501 of this title or that is a 
            United States citizen trust; and
                ``(ii) demise chartered to and operated by a person--

                    ``(I) that is eligible to document the vessel under 
                chapter 121 of this title;
                    ``(II) the chairman of the board of directors, 
                chief executive officer, and a majority of the members 
                of the board of directors of which are citizens of the 
                United States under section 50501 of this title, and 
                are appointed and subject to removal only upon approval 
                by the Secretary; and
                    ``(III) that certifies to the Secretary that there 
                are no treaties, statutes, regulations, or other laws 
                that would prohibit the Contractor for the vessel from 
                performing its obligations under an Operating Agreement 
                under this chapter;

            ``(B) in the case of a vessel that will be demise chartered 
        to a person that is owned or controlled by another person that 
        is not a citizen of the United States under section 50501 of 
        this title, the other person enters into an agreement with the 
        Secretary not to influence the operation of the vessel in a 
        manner that will adversely affect the interests of the United 
        States; and
            ``(C) the Secretary and the Operating Agency notify the 
        Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Commerce, 
        Science and Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on 
        Armed Services of the House of Representatives that they 
        concur, and have reviewed the certification required under 
        subparagraph (A)(ii)(III) and determined that there are no 
        legal, operational, or other impediments that would prohibit 
        the Contractor for the vessel from performing its obligations 
        under an Operating Agreement under this chapter.
        ``(3) Vessel owned and operated by a defense contractor.--A 
    vessel meets the requirements of this paragraph if--
            ``(A) during the period of an Operating Agreement under 
        this chapter that applies to the vessel, the vessel will be 
        owned and operated by a person that--
                ``(i) is eligible to document a vessel under chapter 
            121 of this title;
                ``(ii) operates or manages other United States-
            documented vessels for the Secretary of Defense, or 
            charters other vessels to the Secretary of Defense;
                ``(iii) has entered into a special security agreement 
            for purposes of this paragraph with the Secretary of 
            Defense;
                ``(iv) makes the certification described in paragraph 
            (2)(A)(ii)(III); and
                ``(v) in the case of a vessel described in paragraph 
            (2)(B), enters into an agreement referred to in that 
            paragraph; and
            ``(B) the Secretary and the Secretary of Defense notify the 
        Committee on Armed Services and Committee on Commerce, Science, 
        and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Armed 
        Services of the House of Representatives that they have 
        reviewed the certification required by subparagraph (A)(iv) and 
        determined that there are no other legal, operational, or other 
        impediments that would prohibit the Contractor for the vessel 
        from performing its obligations under an Operating Agreement 
        under this chapter.
        ``(4) Vessel owned by a documentation citizen and chartered to 
    a section 50501 citizen.--A vessel meets the requirements of this 
    paragraph if, during the period of an Operating Agreement under 
    this chapter that applies to the vessel, the vessel will be--
            ``(A) owned by a person that is eligible to document a 
        vessel under chapter 121 of this title; and
            ``(B) demise chartered to a person that is a citizen of the 
        United States under section 50501 of this title.
    ``(d) Vessel Standards.--
        ``(1) Certificate of inspection.--A cable vessel which the 
    Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating 
    determines meets the criteria of subsection (b) of this section but 
    which, on the date of enactment of the Act, is not documented under 
    chapter 121 of this title, shall be eligible for a certificate of 
    inspection if that Secretary determines that--
            ``(A) the vessel is classed by, and designed in accordance 
        with the rules of, the American Bureau of Shipping, or another 
        classification society accepted by that Secretary;
            ``(B) the vessel complies with applicable international 
        agreements and associated guidelines, as determined by the 
        country in which the vessel was documented immediately before 
        becoming documented under chapter 121; and
            ``(C) that country has not been identified by that 
        Secretary as inadequately enforcing international vessel 
        regulations as to that vessel.
        ``(2) Continued eligibility for certificate.--Paragraph (1) 
    does not apply to a vessel after any date on which the vessel fails 
    to comply with the applicable international agreements and 
    associated guidelines referred to in paragraph (1)(B).
        ``(3) Reliance on classification society.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Secretary of the Department in which 
        the Coast Guard is operating may rely on a certification from 
        the American Bureau of Shipping or, subject to subparagraph 
        (B), another classification society accepted by that Secretary 
        to establish that a vessel is in compliance with the 
        requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2).
            ``(B) Foreign classification society.--The Secretary of the 
        Department in which the Coast Guard is operating may accept 
        certification from a foreign classification society under 
        subparagraph (A) only--
                ``(i) to the extent that the government of the foreign 
            country in which the society is headquartered provides 
            access on a reciprocal basis to the American Bureau of 
            Shipping; and
                ``(ii) if the foreign classification society has 
            offices and maintains records in the United States.
    ``(e) Waiver of Age Registration.--The Secretary, in conjunction 
with the Operating Agency, may waive the application of the age 
restriction under subsection (b)(3) if they jointly determine that the 
waiver--
        ``(1) is in the national interest;
        ``(2) the subject cable vessel and any associated operating 
    network is and will continue to be economically viable; and
        ``(3) is necessary due to the lack of availability of other 
    vessels and operators that comply with the requirements of this 
    chapter.
``Sec. 53203. Award of operating agreements
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall require, as a condition of 
including any vessel in the Cable Fleet, that the person that is the 
owner or operator of the vessel for purposes of section 53202(c) enter 
into an Operating Agreement with the Secretary under this section.
    ``(b) Procedure for Applications.--
        ``(1) Acceptance of applications.--Beginning no later than 60 
    days after the effective date of this chapter, the Secretary shall 
    accept applications for enrollment of vessels in the Cable Fleet.
        ``(2) Action on applications.--Within 120 days after receipt of 
    an application for enrollment of a vessel in the Cable Fleet, the 
    Secretary shall approve the application in conjunction with the 
    Operating Agency, and shall enter into an Operating Agreement with 
    the applicant, or provide in writing the reason for denial of that 
    application.
    ``(c) Priority for Awarding Agreements.--Subject to the 
availability of appropriations, the Secretary shall enter into 
Operating Agreements with those vessels determined by the Operating 
Agency, in its sole discretion, to best meet the national security 
requirements of the United States. After consideration of national 
security requirements, priority shall be given to an applicant that is 
a United States citizen under section 50501 of this title.
``Sec. 53204. Effectiveness of operating agreements
    ``(a) Effectiveness Generally.--The Secretary may enter into an 
Operating Agreement under this chapter for fiscal year 2021. Except as 
provided in subsection (d), the agreement shall be effective only for 
one fiscal year, but shall be renewable, subject to available 
appropriations, for each subsequent year.
    ``(b) Vessels Under Charter to the United States.--Vessels under 
charter to the United States are eligible to receive payments pursuant 
to their Operating Agreements.
    ``(c) Termination.--
        ``(1) Termination by the secretary.--If the Contractor with 
    respect to an Operating Agreement materially fails to comply with 
    the terms of the Agreement--
            ``(A) the Secretary shall notify the Contractor and provide 
        a reasonable opportunity for it to comply with the Operating 
        Agreement;
            ``(B) the Secretary shall terminate the Operating Agreement 
        if the Contractor fails to achieve such compliance; and
            ``(C) upon such termination, any funds obligated by the 
        Agreement shall be available to the Secretary to carry out this 
        chapter.
        ``(2) Early termination by a contractor.--An Operating 
    Agreement under this chapter shall terminate on a date specified by 
    the Contractor if the Contractor notifies the Secretary, not fewer 
    than 60 days prior to the effective date of the termination, that 
    the Contractor intends to terminate the Agreement.
    ``(d) Nonrenewal for Lack of Funds.--If, by the first day of a 
fiscal year, sufficient funds have not been appropriated under the 
authority provided by this chapter for that fiscal year for all 
Operating Agreements, then the Secretary shall notify the Committee on 
Armed Services and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the 
House of Representatives that Operating Agreements authorized under 
this chapter for which sufficient funds are not available will not be 
renewed for that fiscal year if sufficient funds are not appropriated 
by the 60th day of that fiscal year. If only partial funding is 
appropriated by the 60th day of such fiscal year, then the Secretary, 
in consultation with the Operating Agency, shall select the vessels to 
retain under Operating Agreements, based on their determinations of 
which vessels are most useful for national security. In the event that 
no funds are appropriated, then no Operating Agreements shall be 
renewed and each Contractor shall be released from its obligations 
under the Operating Agreement. Final payments under an Operating 
Agreement that is not renewed shall be made in accordance with section 
53206. To the extent that sufficient funds are appropriated in a 
subsequent fiscal year, an Operating Agreement that has not been 
renewed pursuant to this subsection may be reinstated if mutually 
acceptable to the Secretary, in consultation with the Operating Agency, 
and the Contractor, provided the vessel remains eligible for 
participation pursuant to section 53202, without regard to subsection 
53202 (b)(3).
    ``(e) Release of Vessels From Obligations.--If funds are not 
appropriated for payments under an Operating Agreement under this 
chapter for any fiscal year by the 60th day of a fiscal year, and the 
Secretary, in consultation with the Operating Agency determines to not 
renew a Contractor's Operating Agreement for a vessel, then--
        ``(1) each vessel covered by the Operating Agreement that is 
    not renewed is thereby released from any further obligation under 
    the Operating Agreement;
        ``(2) the owner or operator of the vessel whose Operating 
    Agreement was not renewed may transfer and register such vessel 
    under a foreign registry that is acceptable to the Secretary and 
    the Operating Agency, notwithstanding section 56101 of this title; 
    and
        ``(3) if chapter 563 of this title is applicable to such vessel 
    after registration, then the vessel is available to be 
    requisitioned by the Secretary pursuant to chapter 563.
``Sec. 53205. Obligations and rights under operating agreements
    ``(a) Operation of Vessel.--An Operating Agreement under this 
chapter shall require that, during the period the vessel is operating 
under the Agreement, the vessel--
        ``(1) shall be operated in the trade for Cable Services, or 
    under a charter to the United States; and
        ``(2) shall be documented under chapter 121 of this title.
    ``(b) Annual Payments by the Secretary.--
        ``(1) In general.--An Operating Agreement under this chapter 
    shall require, subject to the availability of appropriations, that 
    the Secretary make payment to the Contractor in accordance with 
    section 53206.
        ``(2) Operating agreement is an obligation of the united states 
    government.--An Operating Agreement under this chapter constitutes 
    a contractual obligation of the United States Government to pay the 
    amounts provided for in the Operating Agreement to the extent of 
    actual appropriations.
    ``(c) Documentation Requirement.--Each vessel covered by an 
Operating Agreement (including an Agreement terminated under section 
53204(c)(2)) shall remain documented under chapter 121 of this title, 
until the date the Operating Agreement would terminate according to its 
own terms.
    ``(d) National Security Requirements.--
        ``(1) In general.--A Contractor with respect to an Operating 
    Agreement (including an Agreement terminated under section 
    53204(c)(2)) shall continue to be bound by the provisions of 
    section 53207 until the date the Operating Agreement would 
    terminate according to its terms.
        ``(2) Contingency agreement with operating agency.--All terms 
    and conditions of a Contingency Agreement entered into under 
    section 53207 shall remain in effect until a date the Operating 
    Agreement would terminate according to its terms, except that the 
    terms of such Contingency Agreement may be modified by the mutual 
    consent of the Contractor, and the Operating Agency.
    ``(e) Transfer of Operating Agreements.--Operating Agreements shall 
not be transferrable by the Contractor.
    ``(f) Replacement Vessel.--A Contractor may replace a vessel under 
an Operating Agreement with another vessel that is eligible to be 
included in the Fleet under section 53202(b), if the Secretary and the 
Operating Agency jointly determine that the replacement vessel meets 
national security requirements and approve the replacement.
``Sec. 53206. Payments
    ``(a) Annual Payment.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary, subject to availability of 
    appropriations and other provisions of this section, shall pay to 
    the Contractor for an operating agreement, for each vessel that is 
    covered by the operating agreement, an amount equal to $5,000,000 
    for each fiscal year 2021 through 2035.
        ``(2) Timing.--This amount shall be paid in equal monthly 
    installments at the end of each month. The amount shall not be 
    reduced except as provided by this section.
    ``(b) Certification Required for Payment.--As a condition of 
receiving payment under this section for a fiscal year for a vessel, 
the Contractor for the vessel shall certify that the vessel has been 
and will be operated in accordance with section 53205(a)(1) for 365 
days in each fiscal year. Up to thirty (30) days during which the 
vessel is drydocked, surveyed, inspected, or repaired shall be 
considered days of operation for purposes of this subsection.
    ``(c) General Limitations.--The Secretary shall not make any 
payment under this chapter for a vessel with respect to any days for 
which the vessel is--
        ``(1) not operated or maintained in accordance with an 
    Operating Agreement under this chapter; or
        ``(2) more than 40 years of age.
    ``(d) Reductions in Payments.--With respect to payments under this 
chapter for a vessel covered by an Operating Agreement, the Secretary 
shall make a pro rata reduction for each day less than 365 in a fiscal 
year that the vessel is not operated in accordance with section 
53205(a)(1), with days during which the vessel is drydocked or 
undergoing survey, inspection or repair to be considered days on which 
the vessel is operated as provided in subsection (b).
``Sec. 53207. National security requirements
    ``(a) Contingency Agreement Required.--The Secretary shall include 
in each Operating Agreement under this chapter a requirement that the 
Contractor enter into a Contingency Agreement with the Operating 
Agency. The Operating Agency shall negotiate and enter into a 
Contingency Agreement with each Contractor as promptly as practicable 
after the Contractor has entered into an Operating Agreement under this 
chapter.
    ``(b) Terms of Contingency Agreement.--
        ``(1) In general.--A Contingency Agreement under this section 
    shall require that a Contractor for a vessel covered by an 
    Operating Agreement under this chapter make the vessel, including 
    all necessary resources to engage in Cable Services required by the 
    Operating Agency, available upon request by the Operating Agency.
        ``(2) Terms.--
            ``(A) In general.--The basic terms of a Contingency 
        Agreement shall be established (subject to subparagraph (B)) by 
        the Operating Agency.
            ``(B) Additional terms.--The Operating Agency and a 
        Contractor may agree to additional or modifying terms 
        appropriate to the Contractor's circumstances.
    ``(c) Defense Measures Against Unauthorized Seizures.--(1) The 
Contingency Agreement shall require that any vessel operating under the 
direction of the Operating Agency operating in area that is designated 
by the Coast Guard as an area of high risk of piracy shall be equipped 
with, at a minimum, appropriate non-lethal defense measures to protect 
the vessel and crew from unauthorized seizure at sea.
    ``(2) The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of the department 
in which the Coast Guard is operating shall jointly prescribe the non-
lethal defense measures that are required under this paragraph.
    ``(d) Participation After Expiration of Operating Agreement.--
Except as provided by section 53205(d), the Operating Agency may not 
require, through a Contingency Agreement or an Operating Agreement, 
that a Contractor continue to participate in a Contingency Agreement 
after the Operating Agreement with the Contractor has expired according 
to its terms or is otherwise no longer in effect.
    ``(e) Resources Made Available.--The resources to be made available 
in addition to the vessel under a Contingency Agreement shall include 
all equipment, personnel, supplies, management services, and other 
related services as the Operating Agency may determine to be necessary 
to provide the Cable Services required by the Operating Agency.
    ``(f) Compensation.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Operating Agency shall include in each 
    Contingency Agreement provisions under which the Operating Agency 
    shall pay fair and reasonable compensation for use of the vessel 
    and all Cable Services provided pursuant to this section and the 
    Contingency Agreement.
        ``(2) Specific requirements.--Compensation under this 
    subsection--
            ``(A) shall be at the rate specified in the Contingency 
        Agreement;
            ``(B) shall be provided from the time that a vessel is 
        required by the Operating Agency under the Contingency 
        Agreement until the time it is made available by the Operating 
        Agency available to reenter commercial service; and
            ``(C) shall be in addition to and shall not in any way 
        reflect amounts payable under section 53206.
    ``(g) Liability of the United States for Damages.--
        ``(1) Limitation on the liability of the u.s.--Except as 
    otherwise provided by law, the Government shall not be liable for 
    disruption of a Contractor's commercial business or other 
    consequential damages to a Contractor arising from the activation 
    of the Contingency Agreement.
        ``(2) Affirmative defense.--In any action in any Federal or 
    State court for breach of third-party contract, there shall be 
    available as an affirmative defense that the alleged breach of 
    contract was caused predominantly by action taken to carry out a 
    Contingent Agreement. Such defense shall not release the party 
    asserting it from any obligation under applicable law to mitigate 
    damages to the greatest extent possible.
``Sec. 53208. Regulatory relief
    ``The telecommunications and other electronic equipment on an 
existing vessel that is redocumented under the laws of the United 
States for operation under an Operating Agreement under this chapter 
shall be deemed to satisfy all Federal Communication Commission 
equipment certification requirements, if--
        ``(1) such equipment complies with all applicable international 
    agreements and associated guidelines as determined by the country 
    in which the vessel was documented immediately before becoming 
    documented under the laws of the United States;
        ``(2) that country has not been identified by the Secretary of 
    the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating as 
    inadequately enforcing international regulations as to that vessel; 
    and
        ``(3) at the end of its useful life, such equipment shall be 
    replaced with equipment that meets Federal Communication Commission 
    equipment certification standards.
``Sec. 53209. Authorization of appropriations
    ``There are authorized to be appropriated for payments under 
section 53206, $10,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2021 through 
2035.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--The table of chapters at the beginning 
of subtitle V of title 46, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
before the item relating to chapter 533 the following new item:

``532. Cable Security Fleet.....................................53201''.

                     Subtitle C--Maritime SAFE Act

SEC. 3531. SHORT TITLES.
    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Maritime Security and Fisheries 
Enforcement Act'' or the ``Maritime SAFE Act''.
SEC. 3532. DEFINITIONS.
    In this subtitle:
        (1) AIS.--The term ``AIS'' means Automatic Identification 
    System (as defined in section 164.46 of title 33, Code of Federal 
    Regulations, or a similar successor regulation).
        (2) Combined maritime forces.--The term ``Combined Maritime 
    Forces'' means the 33-nation naval partnership, originally 
    established in February 2002, which promotes security, stability, 
    and prosperity across approximately 3,200,000 square miles of 
    international waters.
        (3) Exclusive economic zone.--
            (A) In general.--Unless otherwise specified by the 
        President as being in the public interest in a writing 
        published in the Federal Register, the term ``exclusive 
        economic zone'' means--
                (i) the area within a zone established by a maritime 
            boundary that has been established by a treaty in force or 
            a treaty that is being provisionally applied by the United 
            States; or
                (ii) in the absence of a treaty described in clause 
            (i)--

                    (I) a zone, the outer boundary of which is 200 
                nautical miles from the baseline from which the breadth 
                of the territorial sea is measured; or
                    (II) if the distance between the United States and 
                another country is less than 400 nautical miles, a 
                zone, the outer boundary of which is represented by a 
                line equidistant between the United States and the 
                other country.

            (B) Inner boundary.--Without affecting any Presidential 
        Proclamation with regard to the establishment of the United 
        States territorial sea or exclusive economic zone, the inner 
        boundary of the exclusive economic zone is--
                (i) in the case of coastal States, a line coterminous 
            with the seaward boundary of each such State (as described 
            in section 4 of the Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1312));
                (ii) in the case of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, a 
            line that is 3 marine leagues from the coastline of the 
            Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
                (iii) in the case of American Samoa, the United States 
            Virgin Islands, Guam, and the Northern Mariana Islands, a 
            line that is 3 geographic miles from the coastlines of 
            American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, or 
            the Northern Mariana Islands, respectively; or
                (iv) for any possession of the United States not 
            referred to in clause (ii) or (iii), the coastline of such 
            possession.
            (C) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this paragraph may be 
        construed to diminish the authority of the Department of 
        Defense, the Department of the Interior, or any other Federal 
        department or agency.
        (4) Food security.--The term ``food security'' means access to, 
    and availability, utilization, and stability of, sufficient food to 
    meet caloric and nutritional needs for an active and healthy life.
        (5) Global record of fishing vessels, refrigerated transport 
    vessels, and supply vessels.--The term ``global record of fishing 
    vessels, refrigerated transport vessels, and supply vessels'' means 
    the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations' 
    initiative to rapidly make available certified data from state 
    authorities about vessels and vessel related activities.
        (6) IUU fishing.--The term ``IUU fishing'' means illegal 
    fishing, unreported fishing, or unregulated fishing (as such terms 
    are defined in paragraph 3 of the International Plan of Action to 
    Prevent, Deter, and Eliminate Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated 
    Fishing, adopted at the 24th Session of the Committee on Fisheries 
    in Rome on March 2, 2001).
        (7) Port state measures agreement.--The term ``Port State 
    Measures Agreement'' means the Agreement on Port State Measures to 
    Prevent, Deter, and Eliminate Illegal, Unreported, and Unregulated 
    Fishing set forth by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the 
    United Nations, done at Rome, Italy November 22, 2009, and entered 
    into force June 5, 2016, which offers standards for reporting and 
    inspecting fishing activities of foreign-flagged fishing vessels at 
    port.
        (8) Priority flag state.--The term ``priority flag state'' 
    means a country selected in accordance with section 3552 (b)(3)--
            (A) whereby the flagged vessels of which actively engage 
        in, knowingly profit from, or are complicit in IUU fishing; and
            (B) that is willing, but lacks the capacity, to monitor or 
        take effective enforcement action against its fleet.
        (9) Priority region.--The term ``priority region'' means a 
    region selected in accordance with section 3552 (b)(2)--
            (A) that is at high risk for IUU fishing activity or the 
        entry of illegally caught seafood into the markets of countries 
        in the region; and
            (B) in which countries lack the capacity to fully address 
        the illegal activity described in subparagraph (A).
        (10) Regional fisheries management organization.--The term 
    ``Regional Fisheries Management Organization'' means an 
    intergovernmental fisheries organization or arrangement, as 
    appropriate, that has the competence to establish conservation and 
    management measures.
        (11) Seafood.--The term ``seafood''--
            (A) means marine finfish, mollusks, crustaceans, and all 
        other forms of marine animal and plant life, including those 
        grown, produced, or reared through marine aquaculture 
        operations or techniques; and
            (B) does not include marine mammals, turtles, or birds.
        (12) Transnational organized illegal activity.--The term 
    ``transnational organized illegal activity'' means criminal 
    activity conducted by self-perpetuating associations of individuals 
    who operate transnationally for the purpose of obtaining power, 
    influence, or monetary or commercial gains, wholly or in part by 
    illegal means, while protecting their activities through a pattern 
    of corruption or violence or through a transnational organizational 
    structure and the exploitation of transnational commerce or 
    communication mechanisms.
        (13) Transshipment.--The term ``transshipment'' means the use 
    of refrigerated vessels that--
            (A) collect catch from multiple fishing boats;
            (B) carry the accumulated catches back to port; and
            (C) deliver supplies to fishing boats, which allows fishing 
        vessels to remain at sea for extended periods without coming 
        into port.
SEC. 3533. PURPOSES.
    The purposes of this subtitle are--
        (1) to support a whole-of-government approach across the 
    Federal Government to counter IUU fishing and related threats to 
    maritime security;
        (2) to improve data sharing that enhances surveillance, 
    enforcement, and prosecution against IUU fishing and related 
    activities at a global level;
        (3) to support coordination and collaboration to counter IUU 
    fishing within priority regions;
        (4) to increase and improve global transparency and 
    traceability across the seafood supply chain as--
            (A) a deterrent to IUU fishing; and
            (B) a tool for strengthening fisheries management and food 
        security;
        (5) to improve global enforcement operations against IUU 
    fishing through a whole-of-government approach by the United 
    States; and
        (6) to prevent the use of IUU fishing as a financing source for 
    transnational organized groups that undermine United States and 
    global security interests.
SEC. 3534. STATEMENT OF POLICY.
    It is the policy of the United States_
        (1) to take action to curtail the global trade in seafood and 
    seafood products derived from IUU fishing, including its links to 
    forced labor and transnational organized illegal activity;
        (2) to develop holistic diplomatic, military, law enforcement, 
    economic, and capacity-building tools to counter IUU fishing;
        (3) to provide technical assistance to countries in priority 
    regions and priority flag states to combat IUU fishing, including 
    assistance--
            (A) to increase local, national, and regional level 
        capacities to counter IUU fishing through the engagement of law 
        enforcement and security forces;
            (B) to enhance port capacity and security, including by 
        supporting other countries in working toward the adoption and 
        implementation of the Port State Measures Agreement;
            (C) to combat corruption and increase transparency and 
        traceability in fisheries management and trade;
            (D) to enhance information sharing within and across 
        governments and multilateral organizations through the 
        development and use of agreed standards for information 
        sharing; and
            (E) to support effective, science-based fisheries 
        management regimes that promote legal and safe fisheries and 
        act as a deterrent to IUU fishing;
        (4) to promote global maritime security through improved 
    capacity and technological assistance to support improved maritime 
    domain awareness;
        (5) to engage with priority flag states to encourage the use of 
    high quality vessel tracking technologies where existing 
    enforcement tools are lacking;
        (6) to engage with multilateral organizations working on 
    fisheries issues, including Regional Fisheries Management 
    Organizations and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the 
    United Nations, to combat and deter IUU fishing;
        (7) to advance information sharing across governments and 
    multilateral organizations in areas that cross multiple 
    jurisdictions, through the development and use of an agreed 
    standard for information sharing;
        (8) to continue to use existing and future trade agreements to 
    combat IUU fishing;
        (9) to employ appropriate assets and resources of the United 
    States Government in a coordinated manner to disrupt the illicit 
    networks involved in IUU fishing;
        (10) to continue to declassify and make available, as 
    appropriate and practicable, technologies developed by the United 
    States Government that can be used to help counter IUU fishing;
        (11) to recognize the ties of IUU fishing to transnational 
    organized illegal activity, including human trafficking and illegal 
    trade in narcotics and arms, and as applicable, to focus on illicit 
    activity in a coordinated, cross-cutting manner;
        (12) to recognize and respond to poor working conditions, labor 
    abuses, and other violent crimes in the fishing industry;
        (13) to increase and improve global transparency and 
    traceability along the seafood supply chain as--
            (A) a deterrent to IUU fishing; and
            (B) an approach for strengthening fisheries management and 
        food security; and
        (14) to promote technological investment and innovation to 
    combat IUU fishing.

 PART I--PROGRAMS TO COMBAT IUU FISHING AND INCREASE MARITIME SECURITY

SEC. 3541. COORDINATION WITH INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS.
    The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of 
Commerce, shall coordinate with Regional Fisheries Management 
Organizations and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United 
Nations, and may coordinate with other relevant international 
governmental or nongovernmental organizations, or the private sector, 
as appropriate, to enhance regional responses to IUU fishing and 
related transnational organized illegal activities.
SEC. 3542. ENGAGEMENT OF DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS OF THE UNITED STATES.
    Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this 
title, each chief of mission (as defined in section 102 of the Foreign 
Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3902)) to a relevant country in a 
priority region or to a priority flag state may, if the Secretary of 
State determines such action is appropriate--
        (1) convene a working group, led by Department of State 
    officials, to examine IUU fishing, which may include stakeholders 
    such as--
            (A) United States officials from relevant agencies 
        participating in the interagency Working Group identified in 
        section 3551, foreign officials, nongovernmental organizations, 
        the private sector, and representatives of local fishermen in 
        the region; and
            (B) experts on IUU fishing, law enforcement, criminal 
        justice, transnational organized illegal activity, defense, 
        intelligence, vessel movement monitoring, and international 
        development operating in or with knowledge of the region; and
        (2) designate a counter-IUU Fishing Coordinator from among 
    existing personnel at the mission if the chief of mission 
    determines such action is appropriate.
SEC. 3543. ASSISTANCE BY FEDERAL AGENCIES TO IMPROVE LAW ENFORCEMENT 
WITHIN PRIORITY REGIONS AND PRIORITY FLAG STATES.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of State, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Commerce and the Commandant of the Coast Guard when the 
Coast Guard is not operating as a service in the Department of the 
Navy, as well as any other relevant department or agency, shall provide 
assistance, as appropriate, in accordance with this section.
    (b) Law Enforcement Training and Coordination Activities.--The 
officials referred to in subsection (a) shall evaluate opportunities to 
provide assistance, as appropriate, to countries in priority regions 
and priority flag states to improve the effectiveness of IUU fishing 
enforcement, with clear and measurable targets and indicators of 
success, including--
        (1) by assessing and using existing resources, enforcement 
    tools, and legal authorities to coordinate efforts to combat IUU 
    fishing with efforts to combat other illegal trade, including 
    weapons, drugs, and human trafficking;
        (2) by expanding existing IUU fishing enforcement training;
        (3) by providing targeted, country- and region-specific 
    training on combating IUU fishing, including in those countries 
    that have not adopted the Port State Measures Agreement;
        (4) by supporting increased effectiveness and transparency of 
    the fisheries enforcement sectors of the governments of such 
    countries; and
        (5) by supporting increased outreach to stakeholders in the 
    affected communities as key partners in combating and prosecuting 
    IUU fishing.
    (c) Implementation of Port State Measures.--The officials referred 
to in subsection (a) shall evaluate opportunities to provide 
assistance, as appropriate, to countries in priority regions and 
priority flag states to help those states implement programs related to 
port security and capacity for the purposes of preventing IUU fishing 
products from entering the global seafood market, including by 
supporting other countries in working toward the adoption and 
implementation of the Port State Measures Agreement.
    (d) Capacity Building for Investigations and Prosecutions.--The 
officials referred to in subsection (a), in collaboration with the 
governments of countries in priority regions and of priority flag 
states, shall evaluate opportunities to assist those countries in 
designing and implementing programs in such countries, as appropriate, 
to increase the capacity of IUU fishing enforcement and customs and 
border security officers to improve their ability--
        (1) to conduct effective investigations, including using law 
    enforcement techniques such as undercover investigations and the 
    development of informer networks and actionable intelligence;
        (2) to conduct vessel boardings and inspections at sea and 
    associated enforcement actions;
        (3) to exercise existing shiprider agreements and to enter into 
    and implement new shiprider agreements, as appropriate, including 
    in those countries that have not adopted the Port State Measures 
    Agreement;
        (4) to conduct vessel inspections at port and associated 
    enforcement actions;
        (5) to assess technology needs and promote the use of 
    technology to improve monitoring, enforcement, and prosecution of 
    IUU fishing;
        (6) to conduct DNA-based and forensic identification of seafood 
    used in trade;
        (7) to conduct training on techniques, such as collecting 
    electronic evidence and using computer forensics, for law 
    enforcement personnel involved in complex investigations related to 
    international matters, financial issues, and government corruption 
    that include IUU fishing;
        (8) to assess financial flows and the use of financial 
    institutions to launder profits related to IUU fishing;
        (9) to conduct training on the legal mechanisms that can be 
    used to prosecute those identified in the investigations as alleged 
    perpetrators of IUU fishing and other associated crimes such as 
    trafficking and forced labor; and
        (10) to conduct training to raise awareness of the use of 
    whistleblower information and ways to incentivize whistleblowers to 
    come forward with original information related to IUU fishing.
    (e) Capacity Building for Information Sharing.--The officials 
referred to in subsection (a) shall evaluate opportunities to provide 
assistance, as appropriate, to key countries in priority regions and 
priority flag states in the form of training, equipment, and systems 
development to build capacity for information sharing related to 
maritime enforcement and port security.
    (f) Coordination With Other Relevant Agencies.--The Secretary of 
State shall coordinate, as appropriate, with the Secretary of Commerce, 
the Commandant of the Coast Guard when the Coast Guard is not operating 
as a service in the Department of the Navy, and with other relevant 
Federal agencies in accordance with this section.
SEC. 3544. EXPANSION OF EXISTING MECHANISMS TO COMBAT IUU FISHING.
    (a) Mechanisms to Combat IUU Fishing.--The Secretary of State, the 
Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
Development, the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard 
is operating when it is not operating as a service in the Department of 
the Navy, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Commerce, the 
Attorney General, and the heads of other appropriate Federal agencies 
shall assess opportunities to combat IUU fishing by expanding, as 
appropriate, the use of the following mechanisms:
        (1) Including counter-IUU fishing in existing shiprider 
    agreements in which the United States is a party.
        (2) Entering into shiprider agreements that include counter-IUU 
    fishing with priority flag states and countries in priority regions 
    with which the United States does not already have such an 
    agreement.
        (3) Including counter-IUU fishing as part of the mission of the 
    Combined Maritime Forces.
        (4) Including counter-IUU fishing exercises in the annual at-
    sea exercises conducted by the Department of Defense, in 
    coordination with the United States Coast Guard.
        (5) Creating partnerships similar to the Oceania Maritime 
    Security Initiative and the Africa Maritime Law Enforcement 
    Partnership in other priority regions.
    (b) Information Sharing.--The Director of National Intelligence, in 
conjunction with other agencies, as appropriate, shall develop an 
enterprise approach to appropriately share information and data within 
the United States Government or with other countries or nongovernmental 
organizations, or the private sector, as appropriate, on IUU fishing 
and other connected transnational organized illegal activity occurring 
in priority regions and elsewhere, including big data analytics and 
machine learning.
SEC. 3545. IMPROVEMENT OF TRANSPARENCY AND TRACEABILITY PROGRAMS.
    The Secretary of State, the Administrator of the United States 
Agency for International Development, the Secretary of the Department 
in which the Coast Guard is operating when it is not operating as a 
service in the Department of the Navy, the Secretary of Commerce, and 
the heads of other Federal agencies, if merited, shall work, as 
appropriate, with priority flag states and key countries in priority 
regions--
        (1) to increase knowledge within such countries about the 
    United States transparency and traceability standards for imports 
    of seafood and seafood products;
        (2) to improve the capacity of seafood industries within such 
    countries through information sharing and training to meet the 
    requirements of transparency and traceability standards for seafood 
    and seafood product imports, including catch documentation and 
    trade tracking programs adopted by relevant regional fisheries 
    management organizations; and
        (3) to improve the capacities of government, industry, and 
    civil society groups to develop and implement comprehensive 
    traceability systems that--
            (A) deter IUU fishing;
            (B) strengthen fisheries management; and
            (C) enhance maritime domain awareness.
SEC. 3546. TECHNOLOGY PROGRAMS.
    The Secretary of State, the Administrator of the United States 
Agency for International Development, the Secretary of the Department 
in which the Coast Guard is operating when it is not operating as a 
service in the Department of the Navy, the Secretary of Defense, the 
Secretary of Commerce, and the heads of other Federal agencies, if 
merited, shall pursue programs, as appropriate, to expand the role of 
technology for combating IUU fishing, including by--
        (1) promoting the use of technology to combat IUU fishing;
        (2) assessing the technology needs, including vessel tracking 
    technologies and data sharing, in priority regions and priority 
    flag states;
        (3) engaging with priority flag states to encourage the 
    mandated use of vessel tracking technologies, including vessel 
    monitoring systems, AIS, or other vessel movement monitoring 
    technologies on fishing vessels and transshipment vessels at all 
    times, as appropriate, while at sea as a means to identify IUU 
    fishing activities and the shipment of illegally caught fish 
    products; and
        (4) building partnerships with the private sector, including 
    universities, nonprofit research organizations, the seafood 
    industry, and the technology, transportation and logistics sectors, 
    to leverage new and existing technologies and data analytics to 
    address IUU fishing.
SEC. 3547. SAVINGS CLAUSE.
    No provision of section 3532 or of this part shall impose, or be 
interpreted to impose, any duty, responsibility, requirement, or 
obligation on the Department of Defense, the Department of the Navy, 
the United States Coast Guard when operating as a service in the 
Department of Homeland Security, or any official or component of 
either.

   PART II--ESTABLISHMENT OF INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP ON IUU FISHING

SEC. 3551. INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP ON IUU FISHING.
    (a) In General.--There is established a collaborative interagency 
working group on maritime security and IUU fishing (referred to in this 
subtitle as the ``Working Group'').
    (b) Members.--The members of the Working Group shall be composed 
of--
        (1) 1 chair, who shall rotate between the Secretary of the 
    Department in which the Coast Guard is operating, acting through 
    the Commandant of the Coast Guard, the Secretary of State, and the 
    National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration, acting 
    through the Administrator, on a 3-year term;
        (2) 2 deputy chairs, who shall be appointed by their respective 
    agency heads and shall be from a different Department than that of 
    the chair, from--
            (A) the Coast Guard;
            (B) the Department of State; and
            (C) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration;
        (3) 12 members, who shall be appointed by their respective 
    agency heads, from--
            (A) the Department of Defense;
            (B) the United States Navy;
            (C) the United States Agency for International Development;
            (D) the United States Fish and Wildlife Service;
            (E) the Department of Justice;
            (F) the Department of the Treasury;
            (G) U.S. Customs and Border Protection;
            (H) U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement;
            (I) the Federal Trade Commission;
            (J) the Department of Agriculture;
            (K) the Food and Drug Administration; and
            (L) the Department of Labor;
        (4) 1 or more members from the intelligence community (as 
    defined in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
    U.S.C. 3003)), who shall be appointed by the Director of National 
    Intelligence; and
        (5) 5 members, who shall be appointed by the President, from--
            (A) the National Security Council;
            (B) the Council on Environmental Quality;
            (C) the Office of Management and Budget;
            (D) the Office of Science and Technology Policy; and
            (E) the Office of the United States Trade Representative.
    (c) Responsibilities.--The Working Group shall ensure an 
integrated, Federal Government-wide response to IUU fishing globally, 
including by--
        (1) improving the coordination of Federal agencies to identify, 
    interdict, investigate, prosecute, and dismantle IUU fishing 
    operations and organizations perpetrating and knowingly benefitting 
    from IUU fishing;
        (2) assessing areas for increased interagency information 
    sharing on matters related to IUU fishing and related crimes;
        (3) establishing standards for information sharing related to 
    maritime enforcement;
        (4) developing a strategy to determine how military assets and 
    intelligence can contribute to enforcement strategies to combat IUU 
    fishing;
        (5) increasing maritime domain awareness relating to IUU 
    fishing and related crimes and developing a strategy to leverage 
    awareness for enhanced enforcement and prosecution actions against 
    IUU fishing;
        (6) supporting the adoption and implementation of the Port 
    State Measures Agreement in relevant countries and assessing the 
    capacity and training needs in such countries;
        (7) outlining a strategy to coordinate, increase, and use 
    shiprider agreements between the Department of Defense or the Coast 
    Guard and relevant countries;
        (8) enhancing cooperation with partner governments to combat 
    IUU fishing;
        (9) identifying opportunities for increased information sharing 
    between Federal agencies and partner governments working to combat 
    IUU fishing;
        (10) consulting and coordinating with the seafood industry and 
    nongovernmental stakeholders that work to combat IUU fishing;
        (11) supporting the work of collaborative international 
    initiatives to make available certified data from state authorities 
    about vessel and vessel-related activities related to IUU fishing;
        (12) supporting the identification and certification procedures 
    to address IUU fishing in accordance with the High Seas Driftnet 
    Fishing Moratorium Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 1826d et seq.); and
        (13) publishing annual reports summarizing nonsensitive 
    information about the Working Group's efforts to investigate, 
    enforce, and prosecute groups and individuals engaging in IUU 
    fishing.
SEC. 3552. STRATEGIC PLAN.
    (a) Strategic Plan.--Not later than 2 years after the date of the 
enactment of this title, the Working Group, after consultation with the 
relevant stakeholders, shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate, the Committee on Foreign 
Relations of the Senate, the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, 
the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives, the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
Representatives, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
Representatives, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives a 5-year integrated strategic plan on combating IUU 
fishing and enhancing maritime security, including specific strategies 
with monitoring benchmarks for addressing IUU fishing in priority 
regions.
    (b) Identification of Priority Regions and Priority Flag States.--
        (1) In general.--The strategic plan submitted under subsection 
    (a) shall identify priority regions and priority flag states to be 
    the focus of assistance coordinated by the Working Group under 
    section 3551.
        (2) Priority region selection criteria.--In selecting priority 
    regions under paragraph (1), the Working Group shall select regions 
    that--
            (A) are at high risk for IUU fishing activity or the entry 
        of illegally caught seafood into their markets; and
            (B) lack the capacity to fully address the issues described 
        in subparagraph (A).
        (3) Priority flag states selection criteria.--In selecting 
    priority flag states under paragraph (1), the Working Group shall 
    select countries--
            (A) the flagged vessels of which actively engage in, 
        knowingly profit from, or are complicit in IUU fishing; and
            (B) that lack the capacity to police their fleet.
SEC. 3553. REPORTS.
    Not later than 5 years after the submission of the 5-year 
integrated strategic plan under section 3552, and 5 years after, the 
Working Group shall submit a report to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate, the Committee on Foreign 
Relations of the Senate, the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, 
the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate, the Select Committee on 
Intelligence of the Senate, the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry of the Senate, the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives, the Committee on 
Natural Resources of the House of Representatives, the Committee on 
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives that contains--
        (1) a summary of global and regional trends in IUU fishing;
        (2) an assessment of the extent of the convergence between 
    transnational organized illegal activity, including human 
    trafficking and forced labor, and IUU fishing;
        (3) an assessment of the topics, data sources, and strategies 
    that would benefit from increased information sharing and 
    recommendations regarding harmonization of data collection and 
    sharing;
        (4) an assessment of assets, including military assets and 
    intelligence, which can be used for either enforcement operations 
    or strategies to combat IUU fishing;
        (5) summaries of the situational threats with respect to IUU 
    fishing in priority regions and an assessment of the capacity of 
    countries within such regions to respond to those threats;
        (6) an assessment of the progress of countries in priority 
    regions in responding to those threats as a result of assistance by 
    the United States pursuant to the strategic plan developed under 
    section 3552, including--
            (A) the identification of--
                (i) relevant supply routes, ports of call, methods of 
            landing and entering illegally caught product into legal 
            supply chains, and financial institutions used in each 
            country by participants engaging in IUU fishing; and
                (ii) indicators of IUU fishing that are related to 
            money laundering;
            (B) an assessment of the adherence to, or progress toward 
        adoption of, international treaties related to IUU fishing, 
        including the Port State Measures Agreement, by countries in 
        priority regions;
            (C) an assessment of the implementation by countries in 
        priority regions of seafood traceability or capacity to apply 
        traceability to verify the legality of catch and strengthen 
        fisheries management;
            (D) an assessment of the capacity of countries in priority 
        regions to implement shiprider agreements;
            (E) an assessment of the capacity of countries in priority 
        regions to increase maritime domain awareness; and
            (F) an assessment of the capacity of governments of 
        relevant countries in priority regions to sustain the programs 
        for which the United States has provided assistance under this 
        subtitle;
        (7) an assessment of the capacity of priority flag states to 
    track the movement of and police their fleet, prevent their flagged 
    vessels from engaging in IUU fishing, and enforce applicable laws 
    and regulations; and
        (8) an assessment of the extent of involvement in IUU fishing 
    of organizations designated as foreign terrorist organizations 
    under section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
    1189).
SEC. 3554. GULF OF MEXICO IUU FISHING SUBWORKING GROUP.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this title, the Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration, in coordination with the Commandant of the 
Coast Guard and the Secretary of State, shall establish a subworking 
group to address IUU fishing in the exclusive economic zone of the 
United States in the Gulf of Mexico.
    (b) Functions.--The subworking group established under subsection 
(a) shall identify--
        (1) Federal actions taken and policies established during the 
    5-year period immediately preceding the date of the enactment of 
    this title with respect to IUU fishing in the exclusive economic 
    zone of the United States in the Gulf of Mexico, including such 
    actions and policies related to--
            (A) the surveillance, interdiction, and prosecution of any 
        foreign nationals engaged in such fishing; and
            (B) the application of the provisions of the High Seas 
        Driftnet Fishing Moratorium Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 1826d et 
        seq.) to any relevant nation, including the status of any past 
        or ongoing consultations and certification procedures;
        (2) actions and policies, in addition to the actions and 
    policies described in paragraph (1), each of the Federal agencies 
    described in subsection (a) can take, using existing resources, to 
    combat IUU fishing in the exclusive economic zone of the United 
    States in the Gulf of Mexico; and
        (3) any additional authorities that could assist each such 
    agency in more effectively addressing such IUU fishing.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the IUU Fishing Subworking 
Group is established under subsection (a), the group shall submit a 
report to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
Senate, the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House 
of Representatives, and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
of Representatives that contains--
        (1) the findings identified pursuant to subsection (b); and
        (2) a timeline for each of the Federal agencies described in 
    subsection (a) to implement each action or policy identified 
    pursuant to subsection (b)(2).

 PART III--COMBATING HUMAN TRAFFICKING IN CONNECTION WITH THE CATCHING 
                   AND PROCESSING OF SEAFOOD PRODUCTS

SEC. 3561. FINDING.
    Congress finds that human trafficking, including forced labor, is a 
pervasive problem in the catching and processing of certain seafood 
products imported into the United States, particularly seafood products 
obtained through illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing.
SEC. 3562. ADDING THE SECRETARY OF COMMERCE TO THE INTERAGENCY TASK 
FORCE TO MONITOR AND COMBAT TRAFFICKING.
    Section 105(b) of the Victims of Trafficking and Violence 
Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7103(b)) is amended by inserting 
``the Secretary of Commerce,'' after ``the Secretary of Education,''.
SEC. 3563. HUMAN TRAFFICKING IN THE SEAFOOD SUPPLY CHAIN REPORT.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this title, the Secretary of State and the Administrator 
of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall jointly 
submit a report to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate, the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
Senate, the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, the Committee on 
Natural Resources of the House of Representatives, the Committee on 
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives that describes the 
existence of human trafficking, including forced labor, in the supply 
chains of seafood products imported into the United States.
    (b) Report Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) 
shall include--
        (1) a list of the countries at risk for human trafficking, 
    including forced labor, in their seafood catching and processing 
    industries, and an assessment of such risk for each listed country;
        (2) a description of the quantity and economic value of seafood 
    products imported into the United States from the countries on the 
    list compiled pursuant to paragraph (1);
        (3) a description and assessment of the methods, if any, in the 
    countries on the list compiled pursuant to paragraph (1) to trace 
    and account for the manner in which seafood is caught;
        (4) a description of domestic and international enforcement 
    mechanisms to deter illegal practices in the catching of seafood in 
    the countries on the list compiled pursuant to paragraph (1); and
        (5) such recommendations as the Secretary of State and the 
    Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
    Administration jointly consider appropriate for administrative 
    action to enhance and improve actions against human trafficking, 
    including forced labor, in the catching and processing of seafood 
    products outside of United States waters.

                PART IV--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

SEC. 3571. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    (a) Funding.--Amounts made available to carry out this subtitle 
shall be derived from amounts appropriated to the relevant agencies and 
departments.
    (b) No Increase in Contributions.--Nothing in this subtitle shall 
be construed to authorize an increase in required or voluntary 
contributions paid by the United States to any multilateral or 
international organization.
SEC. 3572. ACCOUNTING OF FUNDS.
    By not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this 
title, the head of each Federal agency receiving or allocating funds to 
carry out activities under this subtitle shall, to the greatest extent 
practicable, prepare and submit to Congress a report that provides an 
accounting of all funds made available under this subtitle to the 
Federal agency.

                       DIVISION D--FUNDING TABLES

Sec. 4001. Authorization of amounts in funding tables.

                         TITLE XLI--PROCUREMENT

Sec. 4101. Procurement.
Sec. 4102. Procurement for overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 4103. Procurement for emergency requirements.

         TITLE XLII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

Sec. 4201. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 4202. Research, development, test, and evaluation for overseas 
          contingency operations.
Sec. 4203. Research, development, test, and evaluation for emergency 
          requirements.

                 TITLE XLIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

Sec. 4301. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 4302. Operation and maintenance for overseas contingency 
          operations.
Sec. 4303. Operation and maintenance for emergency requirements.

                     TITLE XLIV--MILITARY PERSONNEL

Sec. 4401. Military personnel.
Sec. 4402. Military personnel for overseas contingency operations.

                     TITLE XLV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 4501. Other authorizations.
Sec. 4502. Other authorizations for overseas contingency operations.

                    TITLE XLVI--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 4601. Military construction.
Sec. 4602. Military construction for overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 4603. Military construction for emergency requirements.

      TITLE XLVII--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

Sec. 4701. Department of energy national security programs.
SEC. 4001. AUTHORIZATION OF AMOUNTS IN FUNDING TABLES.
    (a) In General.--Whenever a funding table in this division 
specifies a dollar amount authorized for a project, program, or 
activity, the obligation and expenditure of the specified dollar amount 
for the project, program, or activity is hereby authorized, subject to 
the availability of appropriations.
    (b) Merit-based Decisions.--A decision to commit, obligate, or 
expend funds with or to a specific entity on the basis of a dollar 
amount authorized pursuant to subsection (a) shall--
        (1) be based on merit-based selection procedures in accordance 
    with the requirements of sections 2304(k) and 2374 of title 10, 
    United States Code, or on competitive procedures; and
        (2) comply with other applicable provisions of law.
    (c) Relationship to Transfer and Programming Authority.--An amount 
specified in the funding tables in this division may be transferred or 
reprogrammed under a transfer or reprogramming authority provided by 
another provision of this Act or by other law. The transfer or 
reprogramming of an amount specified in such funding tables shall not 
count against a ceiling on such transfers or reprogrammings under 
section 1001 or section 1522 of this Act or any other provision of law, 
unless such transfer or reprogramming would move funds between 
appropriation accounts.
    (d) Applicability to Classified Annex.--This section applies to any 
classified annex that accompanies this Act.
    (e) Oral Written Communications.--No oral or written communication 
concerning any amount specified in the funding tables in this division 
shall supersede the requirements of this section.

                         TITLE XLI--PROCUREMENT

Sec. 4101. Procurement.
Sec. 4102. Procurement for overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 4103. Procurement for emergency requirements.
SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
            SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             FY 2020        Conference
      Line                 Item              Request        Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  FIXED WING
002               UTILITY F/W AIRCRAFT.          16,000               0
                      Early to need....                        [-16,000]
004               RQ-11 (RAVEN)........          23,510          21,420
                      Unit cost growth.                         [-2,090]
                  ROTARY
005               TACTICAL UNMANNED              12,100           6,100
                   AIRCRAFT SYSTEM
                   (TUAS).
                      Program reduction                         [-6,000]
007               HELICOPTER, LIGHT                              11,000
                   UTILITY (LUH).
                      Program increase                          [11,000]
                      for sustainment
                      improvements.
008               AH-64 APACHE BLOCK            806,849         798,785
                   IIIA REMAN.
                      Unjustified cost                          [-8,064]
                      growth.
009               AH-64 APACHE BLOCK            190,870         190,870
                   IIIA REMAN.
012               UH-60 BLACKHAWK M           1,411,540       1,397,740
                   MODEL (MYP).
                      Unit cost growth.                        [-13,800]
013               UH-60 BLACKHAWK M              79,572          79,572
                   MODEL (MYP).
014               UH-60 BLACK HAWK L            169,290         169,290
                   AND V MODELS.
015               CH-47 HELICOPTER.....         140,290         131,290
                      Unit cost growth.                         [-9,000]
016               CH-47 HELICOPTER.....          18,186          46,186
                      Advance                                   [28,000]
                      procurement for
                      CH-47F Block II.
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   AIRCRAFT
019               UNIVERSAL GROUND                2,090           2,090
                   CONTROL EQUIPMENT
                   (UAS).
020               GRAY EAGLE MODS2.....          14,699          14,699
021               MULTI SENSOR ABN               35,189          35,189
                   RECON (MIP).
022               AH-64 MODS...........          58,172          58,172
023               CH-47 CARGO                    11,785          11,785
                   HELICOPTER MODS
                   (MYP).
024               GRCS SEMA MODS (MIP).           5,677           5,677
025               ARL SEMA MODS (MIP)..           6,566           6,566
026               EMARSS SEMA MODS                3,859           3,859
                   (MIP).
027               UTILITY/CARGO                  15,476          13,476
                   AIRPLANE MODS.
                      Unit cost                                 [-2,000]
                      discrepancy.
028               UTILITY HELICOPTER              6,744           6,744
                   MODS.
029               NETWORK AND MISSION           105,442          98,442
                   PLAN.
                      Cost growth......                         [-7,000]
030               COMMS, NAV                    164,315         164,315
                   SURVEILLANCE.
032               GATM ROLLUP..........          30,966          30,966
033               RQ-7 UAV MODS........           8,983           8,983
034               UAS MODS.............          10,205          10,205
                  GROUND SUPPORT
                   AVIONICS
035               AIRCRAFT                       52,297          52,297
                   SURVIVABILITY
                   EQUIPMENT.
036               SURVIVABILITY CM.....           8,388           8,388
037               CMWS.................          13,999          13,999
038               COMMON INFRARED               168,784         168,784
                   COUNTERMEASURES
                   (CIRCM).
                  OTHER SUPPORT
039               AVIONICS SUPPORT                1,777           1,777
                   EQUIPMENT.
040               COMMON GROUND                  18,624          18,624
                   EQUIPMENT.
041               AIRCREW INTEGRATED             48,255          48,255
                   SYSTEMS.
042               AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL..          32,738          32,738
044               LAUNCHER, 2.75 ROCKET           2,201           2,201
045               LAUNCHER GUIDED                   991             991
                   MISSILE: LONGBOW
                   HELLFIRE XM2.
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT         3,696,429       3,671,475
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  MISSILE PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  SURFACE-TO-AIR
                   MISSILE SYSTEM
001               SYSTEM INTEGRATION            113,857         113,857
                   AND TEST PROCUREMENT.
002               M-SHORAD--PROCUREMENT         103,800          71,800
                      Early to need....                        [-32,000]
003               MSE MISSILE..........         698,603         698,603
004               INDIRECT FIRE                   9,337           9,337
                   PROTECTION
                   CAPABILITY INC 2-I.
                  AIR-TO-SURFACE
                   MISSILE SYSTEM
006               HELLFIRE SYS SUMMARY.         193,284         186,084
                      Unit cost growth.                         [-7,200]
007               JOINT AIR-TO-GROUND           233,353         199,295
                   MSLS (JAGM).
                      Contract and                             [-34,058]
                      schedule delays.
                  ANTI-TANK/ASSAULT
                   MISSILE SYS
008               JAVELIN (AAWS-M)              138,405         138,405
                   SYSTEM SUMMARY.
009               TOW 2 SYSTEM SUMMARY.         114,340         107,958
                      Unit cost growth.                         [-6,382]
010               TOW 2 SYSTEM SUMMARY.          10,500          10,500
011               GUIDED MLRS ROCKET            797,213         767,213
                   (GMLRS).
                      Program                                  [-30,000]
                      adjustment.
012               MLRS REDUCED RANGE             27,555          27,555
                   PRACTICE ROCKETS
                   (RRPR).
014               ARMY TACTICAL MSL SYS         209,842         170,013
                   (ATACMS)--SYS SUM.
                      Excess to need...                        [-39,829]
                  MODIFICATIONS
016               PATRIOT MODS.........         279,464         279,464
017               ATACMS MODS..........          85,320          80,320
                      Unit cost growth.                         [-5,000]
018               GMLRS MOD............           5,094           5,094
019               STINGER MODS.........          81,615          81,615
020               AVENGER MODS.........          14,107          14,107
021               ITAS/TOW MODS........           3,469           3,469
022               MLRS MODS............          39,019          39,019
023               HIMARS MODIFICATIONS.          12,483          12,483
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
024               SPARES AND REPAIR              26,444          26,444
                   PARTS.
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES
025               AIR DEFENSE TARGETS..          10,593          10,593
                       TOTAL MISSILE          3,207,697       3,053,228
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV;,
                   ARMY
                  TRACKED COMBAT
                   VEHICLES
002               ARMORED MULTI PURPOSE         264,040         230,307
                   VEHICLE (AMPV).
                      Program reduction                        [-33,733]
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   TRACKED COMBAT
                   VEHICLES
003               STRYKER (MOD)........         144,387         393,587
                      Accelerate                               [249,200]
                      Stryker medium
                      caliber weapon
                      system--Army
                      unfunded priority.
004               STRYKER UPGRADE......         550,000         522,962
                      Unit cost growth.                        [-27,038]
005               BRADLEY PROGRAM (MOD)         638,781         573,781
                      Program decrease.                        [-65,000]
006               M109 FOV                       25,756          25,756
                   MODIFICATIONS.
007               PALADIN INTEGRATED            553,425         553,425
                   MANAGEMENT (PIM).
009               ASSAULT BRIDGE (MOD).           2,821           2,821
010               ASSAULT BREACHER               31,697          31,697
                   VEHICLE.
011               M88 FOV MODS.........           4,500           4,500
012               JOINT ASSAULT BRIDGE.         205,517         205,517
013               M1 ABRAMS TANK (MOD).         348,800         401,800
                      Test support                              [-7,000]
                      excess to need.
                      Vehicle                                   [60,000]
                      protection system
                      for one armored
                      brigade.
014               ABRAMS UPGRADE              1,752,784       1,752,784
                   PROGRAM.
                  WEAPONS & OTHER
                   COMBAT VEHICLES
016               MULTI-ROLE ANTI-ARMOR          19,420          19,420
                   ANTI-PERSONNEL
                   WEAPONS.
017               GUN AUTOMATIC 30MM             20,000           5,042
                   M230.
                      Program reduction                        [-14,958]
019               MORTAR SYSTEMS.......          14,907          14,907
020               XM320 GRENADE                     191             191
                   LAUNCHER MODULE
                   (GLM).
021               PRECISION SNIPER                7,977           7,977
                   RIFLE.
022               COMPACT SEMI-                   9,860           9,860
                   AUTOMATIC SNIPER
                   SYSTEM.
023               CARBINE..............          30,331          30,331
024               SMALL ARMS--FIRE                8,060               0
                   CONTROL.
                      Late contract                             [-8,060]
                      award.
025               COMMON REMOTELY                24,007          24,007
                   OPERATED WEAPONS
                   STATION.
026               HANDGUN..............           6,174           6,174
                  MOD OF WEAPONS AND
                   OTHER COMBAT VEH
028               MK-19 GRENADE MACHINE           3,737           3,737
                   GUN MODS.
029               M777 MODS............           2,367           2,367
030               M4 CARBINE MODS......          17,595          17,595
033               M240 MEDIUM MACHINE             8,000           8,000
                   GUN MODS.
034               SNIPER RIFLES                   2,426           2,426
                   MODIFICATIONS.
035               M119 MODIFICATIONS...           6,269           6,269
036               MORTAR MODIFICATION..           1,693           1,693
037               MODIFICATIONS LESS              4,327           4,327
                   THAN $5.0M (WOCV-
                   WTCV).
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES
038               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M           3,066           3,066
                   (WOCV-WTCV).
039               PRODUCTION BASE                 2,651           2,651
                   SUPPORT (WOCV-WTCV).
                       TOTAL                  4,715,566       4,868,977
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       W&TCV;, ARMY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF
                   AMMUNITION, ARMY
                  SMALL/MEDIUM CAL
                   AMMUNITION
001               CTG, 5.56MM, ALL               68,949          65,520
                   TYPES.
                      Prior-year                                [-3,429]
                      carryover.
002               CTG, 7.62MM, ALL              114,228         112,228
                   TYPES.
                      Prior-year                                [-2,000]
                      carryover.
003               CTG, HANDGUN, ALL              17,807          17,807
                   TYPES.
004               CTG, .50 CAL, ALL              63,966          63,966
                   TYPES.
005               CTG, 20MM, ALL TYPES.          35,920          27,920
                      Unit cost growth.                         [-8,000]
006               CTG, 25MM, ALL TYPES.           8,990           8,990
007               CTG, 30MM, ALL TYPES.          68,813          65,337
                      Prior-year carry                          [-1,134]
                      over.
                      Program                                   [-2,342]
                      adjustment.
008               CTG, 40MM, ALL TYPES.         103,952         103,952
                  MORTAR AMMUNITION
009               60MM MORTAR, ALL               50,580          49,580
                   TYPES.
                      Unit cost                                 [-1,000]
                      discrepancy.
010               81MM MORTAR, ALL               59,373          44,673
                   TYPES.
                      Contract delays..                        [-14,700]
011               120MM MORTAR, ALL             125,452         123,452
                   TYPES.
                      Unit cost growth.                         [-2,000]
                  TANK AMMUNITION
012               CARTRIDGES, TANK,             171,284         120,464
                   105MM AND 120MM, ALL
                   TYPES.
                      Unit cost growth.                        [-50,820]
                  ARTILLERY AMMUNITION
013               ARTILLERY CARTRIDGES,          44,675          44,675
                   75MM & 105MM, ALL
                   TYPES.
014               ARTILLERY PROJECTILE,         266,037         266,037
                   155MM, ALL TYPES.
015               PROJ 155MM EXTENDED            57,434          57,434
                   RANGE M982.
016               ARTILLERY                     271,602         268,022
                   PROPELLANTS, FUZES
                   AND PRIMERS, ALL.
                      Cost growth and                           [-3,580]
                      unjustified
                      product
                      improvements.
                  MINES
017               MINES & CLEARING               55,433          39,239
                   CHARGES, ALL TYPES.
                      Contract delay...                        [-16,194]
                  ROCKETS
018               SHOULDER LAUNCHED              74,878          74,878
                   MUNITIONS, ALL TYPES.
019               ROCKET, HYDRA 70, ALL         175,994         165,994
                   TYPES.
                      Excess support                           [-10,000]
                      costs.
                  OTHER AMMUNITION
020               CAD/PAD, ALL TYPES...           7,595           7,595
021               DEMOLITION MUNITIONS,          51,651          51,651
                   ALL TYPES.
022               GRENADES, ALL TYPES..          40,592          40,592
023               SIGNALS, ALL TYPES...          18,609          18,609
024               SIMULATORS, ALL TYPES          16,054          16,054
                  MISCELLANEOUS
025               AMMO COMPONENTS, ALL            5,261           5,261
                   TYPES.
026               NON-LETHAL                        715             715
                   AMMUNITION, ALL
                   TYPES.
027               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              9,213           9,213
                   MILLION (AMMO).
028               AMMUNITION PECULIAR            10,044          10,044
                   EQUIPMENT.
029               FIRST DESTINATION              18,492          18,492
                   TRANSPORTATION
                   (AMMO).
030               CLOSEOUT LIABILITIES.              99              99
                  PRODUCTION BASE
                   SUPPORT
031               INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES         474,511         474,511
032               CONVENTIONAL                  202,512         202,512
                   MUNITIONS
                   DEMILITARIZATION.
033               ARMS INITIATIVE......           3,833           3,833
                       TOTAL                  2,694,548       2,579,349
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMUNITION, ARMY.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  TACTICAL VEHICLES
001               TACTICAL TRAILERS/             12,993          12,993
                   DOLLY SETS.
002               SEMITRAILERS,                 102,386         102,386
                   FLATBED:.
003               AMBULANCE, 4 LITTER,          127,271         127,271
                   5/4 TON, 4X4.
004               GROUND MOBILITY                37,038          35,038
                   VEHICLES (GMV).
                      Unit cost growth.                         [-2,000]
006               JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL          996,007         976,507
                   VEHICLE.
                      Army requested                            [-4,500]
                      transfer to RDTE,
                      A line 169.
                      Simulator delay..                        [-15,000]
007               TRUCK, DUMP, 20T               10,838          10,838
                   (CCE).
008               FAMILY OF MEDIUM               72,057         138,057
                   TACTICAL VEH (FMTV).
                      Program increase.                         [66,000]
009               FIRETRUCKS &                   28,048          28,048
                   ASSOCIATED
                   FIREFIGHTING EQUIP.
010               FAMILY OF HEAVY                 9,969           9,969
                   TACTICAL VEHICLES
                   (FHTV).
011               PLS ESP..............           6,280           6,280
012               HVY EXPANDED MOBILE            30,841          95,185
                   TACTICAL TRUCK EXT
                   SERV.
                      Program increase.                         [64,344]
013               HMMWV                           5,734           5,734
                   RECAPITALIZATION
                   PROGRAM.
014               TACTICAL WHEELED               45,113          45,113
                   VEHICLE PROTECTION
                   KITS.
015               MODIFICATION OF IN             58,946          58,946
                   SVC EQUIP.
                  NON-TACTICAL VEHICLES
017               HEAVY ARMORED VEHICLE             791             791
018               PASSENGER CARRYING              1,416           1,416
                   VEHICLES.
019               NONTACTICAL VEHICLES,          29,891          29,891
                   OTHER.
                  COMM--JOINT
                   COMMUNICATIONS
021               SIGNAL MODERNIZATION          153,933         143,933
                   PROGRAM.
                      Excess funding                           [-10,000]
                      for spares.
022               TACTICAL NETWORK              387,439         411,439
                   TECHNOLOGY MOD IN
                   SVC.
                      ITN-M for one                             [24,000]
                      armored brigade
                      combat team.
023               SITUATION INFORMATION          46,693          46,693
                   TRANSPORT.
025               JCSE EQUIPMENT                  5,075           5,075
                   (USRDECOM).
                  COMM--SATELLITE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
028               DEFENSE ENTERPRISE            101,189         101,189
                   WIDEBAND SATCOM
                   SYSTEMS.
029               TRANSPORTABLE                  77,141          77,141
                   TACTICAL COMMAND
                   COMMUNICATIONS.
030               SHF TERM.............          16,054          16,054
031               ASSURED POSITIONING,           41,074          33,674
                   NAVIGATION AND
                   TIMING.
                      Program                                   [-7,400]
                      cancellation.
032               SMART-T (SPACE)......          10,515          10,515
033               GLOBAL BRDCST SVC--            11,800          11,800
                   GBS.
034               ENROUTE MISSION                 8,609           8,609
                   COMMAND (EMC).
                  COMM--C3 SYSTEM
038               COE TACTICAL SERVER            77,533          57,533
                   INFRASTRUCTURE (TSI).
                      Program reduction                        [-20,000]
                  COMM--COMBAT
                   COMMUNICATIONS
039               HANDHELD MANPACK              468,026         488,026
                   SMALL FORM FIT (HMS).
                      SFAB technology                           [20,000]
                      refresh.
040               RADIO TERMINAL SET,            23,778          23,778
                   MIDS LVT(2).
044               SPIDER FAMILY OF               10,930          10,930
                   NETWORKED MUNITIONS
                   INCR.
046               UNIFIED COMMAND SUITE           9,291           9,291
047               COTS COMMUNICATIONS            55,630          55,630
                   EQUIPMENT.
048               FAMILY OF MED COMM             16,590          16,590
                   FOR COMBAT CASUALTY
                   CARE.
049               ARMY COMMUNICATIONS &          43,457          43,457
                   ELECTRONICS.
                  COMM--INTELLIGENCE
                   COMM
051               CI AUTOMATION                  10,470          10,470
                   ARCHITECTURE (MIP).
052               DEFENSE MILITARY                3,704           3,704
                   DECEPTION INITIATIVE.
                  INFORMATION SECURITY
053               FAMILY OF BIOMETRICS.           1,000           1,000
054               INFORMATION SYSTEM              3,600           3,600
                   SECURITY PROGRAM-
                   ISSP.
055               COMMUNICATIONS                160,899         147,097
                   SECURITY (COMSEC).
                      Unit cost growth.                        [-13,802]
056               DEFENSIVE CYBER                61,962          61,962
                   OPERATIONS.
057               INSIDER THREAT                    756             756
                   PROGRAM--UNIT
                   ACTIVITY MONITO.
058               PERSISTENT CYBER                3,000           3,000
                   TRAINING ENVIRONMENT.
                  COMM--LONG HAUL
                   COMMUNICATIONS
059               BASE SUPPORT                   31,770          31,770
                   COMMUNICATIONS.
                  COMM--BASE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
060               INFORMATION SYSTEMS..         159,009         159,009
061               EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT            4,854           4,854
                   MODERNIZATION
                   PROGRAM.
062               HOME STATION MISSION           47,174          47,174
                   COMMAND CENTERS
                   (HSMCC).
063               INSTALLATION INFO             297,994         265,494
                   INFRASTRUCTURE MOD
                   PROGRAM.
                      Insufficient                             [-32,500]
                      budget
                      justification.
                  ELECT EQUIP--TACT INT
                   REL ACT (TIARA)
066               JTT/CIBS-M (MIP).....           7,686           7,686
068               DCGS-A (MIP).........         180,350         180,350
070               TROJAN (MIP).........          17,368          17,368
071               MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP            59,052          59,052
                   (INTEL SPT) (MIP).
                  ELECT EQUIP--
                   ELECTRONIC WARFARE
                   (EW)
077               LIGHTWEIGHT COUNTER             5,400           5,400
                   MORTAR RADAR.
078               EW PLANNING &                   7,568           7,568
                   MANAGEMENT TOOLS
                   (EWPMT).
079               AIR VIGILANCE (AV)              8,953           8,953
                   (MIP).
081               MULTI-FUNCTION                  6,420           3,220
                   ELECTRONIC WARFARE
                   (MFEW) SYST.
                      Program reduction                         [-3,200]
083               COUNTERINTELLIGENCE/              501             501
                   SECURITY
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
084               CI MODERNIZATION                  121             121
                   (MIP).
                  ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL
                   SURV. (TAC SURV)
085               SENTINEL MODS........         115,210         114,210
                      Excess support                            [-1,000]
                      costs.
086               NIGHT VISION DEVICES.         236,604         160,379
                      Insufficient                             [-76,225]
                      justification
                      (IVAS).
088               SMALL TACTICAL                 22,623          22,623
                   OPTICAL RIFLE
                   MOUNTED MLRF.
090               INDIRECT FIRE                  29,127          29,127
                   PROTECTION FAMILY OF
                   SYSTEMS.
091               FAMILY OF WEAPON              120,883          81,541
                   SIGHTS (FWS).
                      Excess unit cost                         [-39,342]
                      growth.
094               JOINT BATTLE COMMAND--        265,667         256,567
                   PLATFORM (JBC-P).
                      Program                                   [-9,100]
                      adjustment.
095               JOINT EFFECTS                  69,720          44,720
                   TARGETING SYSTEM
                   (JETS).
                      Program delay....                        [-25,000]
096               MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP             6,044           6,044
                   (LLDR).
097               COMPUTER BALLISTICS:            3,268           3,268
                   LHMBC XM32.
098               MORTAR FIRE CONTROL            13,199          13,199
                   SYSTEM.
099               MORTAR FIRE CONTROL            10,000          10,000
                   SYSTEMS
                   MODIFICATIONS.
100               COUNTERFIRE RADARS...          16,416          16,416
                  ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL
                   C2 SYSTEMS
102               FIRE SUPPORT C2                13,197          13,197
                   FAMILY.
103               AIR & MSL DEFENSE              24,730          24,730
                   PLANNING & CONTROL
                   SYS.
104               IAMD BATTLE COMMAND            29,629          29,629
                   SYSTEM.
105               LIFE CYCLE SOFTWARE             6,774           6,774
                   SUPPORT (LCSS).
106               NETWORK MANAGEMENT             24,448          24,448
                   INITIALIZATION AND
                   SERVICE.
107               MANEUVER CONTROL                  260             260
                   SYSTEM (MCS).
108               GLOBAL COMBAT SUPPORT          17,962          17,962
                   SYSTEM-ARMY (GCSS-A).
109               INTEGRATED PERSONNEL           18,674           8,674
                   AND PAY SYSTEM-ARMY
                   (IPP.
                      Poor business                            [-10,000]
                      process
                      reengineering.
110               RECONNAISSANCE AND             11,000          11,000
                   SURVEYING INSTRUMENT
                   SET.
111               MOD OF IN-SVC                   7,317          15,317
                   EQUIPMENT (ENFIRE).
                      Program increase--                         [8,000]
                      land surveying
                      systems.
                  ELECT EQUIP--
                   AUTOMATION
112               ARMY TRAINING                  14,578          14,578
                   MODERNIZATION.
113               AUTOMATED DATA                139,342         129,342
                   PROCESSING EQUIP.
                      Program decrease.                         [-5,000]
                      Unjustified                               [-5,000]
                      growth.
114               GENERAL FUND                   15,802          15,802
                   ENTERPRISE BUSINESS
                   SYSTEMS FAM.
115               HIGH PERF COMPUTING            67,610          67,610
                   MOD PGM (HPCMP).
116               CONTRACT WRITING               15,000           6,000
                   SYSTEM.
                      Program                                   [-9,000]
                      duplication.
117               CSS COMMUNICATIONS...          24,700          24,700
118               RESERVE COMPONENT              27,879          27,879
                   AUTOMATION SYS
                   (RCAS).
                  ELECT EQUIP--AUDIO
                   VISUAL SYS (A/V)
120               ITEMS LESS THAN $5M             5,000           5,000
                   (SURVEYING
                   EQUIPMENT).
                  ELECT EQUIP--SUPPORT
122               BCT EMERGING                   22,302          10,302
                   TECHNOLOGIES.
                      Program reduction                        [-12,000]
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
122A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..          11,910          11,910
                  CHEMICAL DEFENSIVE
                   EQUIPMENT
126               CBRN DEFENSE.........          25,828          25,828
127               SMOKE & OBSCURANT               5,050           5,050
                   FAMILY: SOF (NON AAO
                   ITEM).
                  BRIDGING EQUIPMENT
128               TACTICAL BRIDGING....          59,821          57,821
                      Contract delays..                         [-2,000]
129               TACTICAL BRIDGE,               57,661          57,661
                   FLOAT-RIBBON.
130               BRIDGE SUPPLEMENTAL            17,966          17,966
                   SET.
131               COMMON BRIDGE                  43,155          43,155
                   TRANSPORTER (CBT)
                   RECAP.
                  ENGINEER (NON-
                   CONSTRUCTION)
                   EQUIPMENT
132               HANDHELD STANDOFF               7,570           7,570
                   MINEFIELD DETECTION
                   SYS-HST.
133               GRND STANDOFF MINE             37,025          37,025
                   DETECTN SYSM
                   (GSTAMIDS).
135               HUSKY MOUNTED                  83,082          47,899
                   DETECTION SYSTEM
                   (HMDS).
                      Unjustified unit                         [-35,183]
                      cost growth.
136               ROBOTIC COMBAT                  2,000           2,000
                   SUPPORT SYSTEM
                   (RCSS).
137               EOD ROBOTICS SYSTEMS           23,115          23,115
                   RECAPITALIZATION.
138               ROBOTICS AND APPLIQUE         101,056         101,056
                   SYSTEMS.
140               RENDER SAFE SETS KITS          18,684          18,684
                   OUTFITS.
142               FAMILY OF BOATS AND             8,245           6,245
                   MOTORS.
                      Unit cost growth.                         [-2,000]
                  COMBAT SERVICE
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
143               HEATERS AND ECU'S....           7,336           7,336
145               PERSONNEL RECOVERY              4,281           4,281
                   SUPPORT SYSTEM
                   (PRSS).
146               GROUND SOLDIER SYSTEM         111,955         111,955
147               MOBILE SOLDIER POWER.          31,364          29,943
                      Unit cost growth.                         [-1,421]
149               FIELD FEEDING                   1,673           1,673
                   EQUIPMENT.
150               CARGO AERIAL DEL &             43,622          43,622
                   PERSONNEL PARACHUTE
                   SYSTEM.
151               FAMILY OF ENGR COMBAT          11,451          11,451
                   AND CONSTRUCTION
                   SETS.
152               ITEMS LESS THAN $5M             5,167           5,167
                   (ENG SPT).
                  PETROLEUM EQUIPMENT
154               DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS,          74,867          74,867
                   PETROLEUM & WATER.
                  MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
155               COMBAT SUPPORT                 68,225          68,225
                   MEDICAL.
                  MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
156               MOBILE MAINTENANCE             55,053          55,053
                   EQUIPMENT SYSTEMS.
157               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M           5,608           5,608
                   (MAINT EQ).
                  CONSTRUCTION
                   EQUIPMENT
161               HYDRAULIC EXCAVATOR..             500             500
162               TRACTOR, FULL TRACKED           4,835           4,835
163               ALL TERRAIN CRANES...          23,936          23,936
164               HIGH MOBILITY                  27,188          27,188
                   ENGINEER EXCAVATOR
                   (HMEE).
166               CONST EQUIP ESP......          34,790          34,790
167               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M           4,381           4,381
                   (CONST EQUIP).
                  RAIL FLOAT
                   CONTAINERIZATION
                   EQUIPMENT
168               ARMY WATERCRAFT ESP..          35,194          35,194
169               MANEUVER SUPPORT               14,185          14,185
                   VESSEL (MSV).
170               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M           6,920           6,920
                   (FLOAT/RAIL).
                  GENERATORS
171               GENERATORS AND                 58,566          58,566
                   ASSOCIATED EQUIP.
172               TACTICAL ELECTRIC              14,814          14,814
                   POWER
                   RECAPITALIZATION.
                  MATERIAL HANDLING
                   EQUIPMENT
173               FAMILY OF FORKLIFTS..          14,864          14,864
                  TRAINING EQUIPMENT
174               COMBAT TRAINING               123,411         123,411
                   CENTERS SUPPORT.
175               TRAINING DEVICES,             220,707         220,707
                   NONSYSTEM.
176               SYNTHETIC TRAINING             20,749          15,749
                   ENVIRONMENT (STE).
                      Program                                   [-5,000]
                      adjustment.
178               AVIATION COMBINED               4,840           4,840
                   ARMS TACTICAL
                   TRAINER.
179               GAMING TECHNOLOGY IN           15,463          15,463
                   SUPPORT OF ARMY
                   TRAINING.
                  TEST MEASURE AND DIG
                   EQUIPMENT (TMD)
180               CALIBRATION SETS                3,030           3,030
                   EQUIPMENT.
181               INTEGRATED FAMILY OF           76,980          76,980
                   TEST EQUIPMENT
                   (IFTE).
182               TEST EQUIPMENT                 16,415          13,415
                   MODERNIZATION
                   (TEMOD).
                      Historical                                [-3,000]
                      underexecution.
                  OTHER SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
184               RAPID EQUIPPING                 9,877           9,877
                   SOLDIER SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT.
185               PHYSICAL SECURITY              82,158          82,158
                   SYSTEMS (OPA3).
186               BASE LEVEL COMMON              15,340          15,340
                   EQUIPMENT.
187               MODIFICATION OF IN-            50,458          50,458
                   SVC EQUIPMENT (OPA-
                   3).
189               BUILDING, PRE-FAB,             14,400          14,400
                   RELOCATABLE.
190               SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FOR           9,821           9,821
                   USER TESTING.
                  OPA2
192               INITIAL SPARES--C&E..;           9,757           9,757
                       TOTAL OTHER            7,451,301       7,284,972
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  COMBAT AIRCRAFT
001               F/A-18E/F (FIGHTER)         1,748,934       1,730,360
                   HORNET.
                      ECO and ancillary                        [-18,574]
                      equipment excess
                      growth.
002               F/A-18E/F (FIGHTER)            55,128          51,180
                   HORNET.
                      Excess engine                             [-3,948]
                      cost growth.
003               JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER        2,272,301       2,217,821
                   CV.
                      Target cost                              [-54,480]
                      savings.
004               JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER          339,053         339,053
                   CV.
005               JSF STOVL............       1,342,035       1,266,301
                      Target cost                              [-75,734]
                      savings.
006               JSF STOVL............         291,804         291,804
007               CH-53K (HEAVY LIFT)..         807,876         807,876
008               CH-53K (HEAVY LIFT)..         215,014         215,014
009               V-22 (MEDIUM LIFT)...         966,666       1,214,766
                      Program increase.                        [248,100]
010               V-22 (MEDIUM LIFT)...          27,104          27,104
011               H-1 UPGRADES (UH-1Y/           62,003          53,003
                   AH-1Z).
                      Production line                           [-9,000]
                      shutdown excess
                      to need.
013               MH-60R (MYP).........             894             894
014               P-8A POSEIDON........       1,206,701       1,680,601
                      Line shutdown                            [-67,300]
                      costs early to
                      need.
                      Navy unfunded                            [541,200]
                      priority.
016               E-2D ADV HAWKEYE.....         744,484         900,284
                      Navy unfunded                            [173,000]
                      priority.
                      NRE excess cost                          [-17,200]
                      growth.
017               E-2D ADV HAWKEYE.....         190,204         190,204
                  TRAINER AIRCRAFT
019               ADVANCED HELICOPTER           261,160         261,160
                   TRAINING SYSTEM.
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
020               KC-130J..............         240,840         221,904
                      Unit cost growth.                        [-18,936]
021               KC-130J..............          66,061          66,061
022               F-5..................          39,676          39,676
023               MQ-4 TRITON..........         473,134         448,134
                      PGSE excess cost                         [-25,000]
                      growth.
024               MQ-4 TRITON..........          20,139          20,139
025               MQ-8 UAV.............          44,957          44,957
026               STUASL0 UAV..........          43,819          43,819
028               VH-92A EXECUTIVE HELO         658,067         647,351
                      Program reduction                        [-10,716]
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   AIRCRAFT
029               AEA SYSTEMS..........          44,470          39,170
                      Program reduction                         [-5,300]
030               AV-8 SERIES..........          39,472          39,472
031               ADVERSARY............           3,415           3,415
032               F-18 SERIES..........       1,207,089       1,128,089
                      Early to need....                        [-79,000]
033               H-53 SERIES..........          68,385          68,385
034               MH-60 SERIES.........         149,797         147,297
                      NRE prior year                            [-2,500]
                      carryover (OSIP
                      018-12).
035               H-1 SERIES...........         114,059         114,059
036               EP-3 SERIES..........           8,655           8,655
038               E-2 SERIES...........         117,059         117,059
039               TRAINER A/C SERIES...           5,616           5,616
040               C-2A.................          15,747          15,747
041               C-130 SERIES.........         122,671         116,786
                      B kit cost growth                         [-3,009]
                      (OSIP 019-14).
                      GFE excess growth                         [-2,876]
                      (OSIP 019-14).
042               FEWSG................             509             509
043               CARGO/TRANSPORT A/C             8,767           8,767
                   SERIES.
044               E-6 SERIES...........         169,827         167,216
                      Program reduction                         [-2,611]
045               EXECUTIVE HELICOPTERS           8,933           8,933
                   SERIES.
047               T-45 SERIES..........         186,022         184,314
                      NRE previously                            [-1,708]
                      funded.
048               POWER PLANT CHANGES..          16,136          16,136
049               JPATS SERIES.........          21,824          21,824
050               AVIATION LIFE SUPPORT          39,762          39,762
                   MODS.
051               COMMON ECM EQUIPMENT.         162,839         152,839
                      Program decrease.                        [-10,000]
052               COMMON AVIONICS               102,107          75,107
                   CHANGES.
                      Computing and                            [-27,000]
                      displays
                      concurrency and
                      equipment growth
                      early to need.
053               COMMON DEFENSIVE                2,100           2,100
                   WEAPON SYSTEM.
054               ID SYSTEMS...........          41,437          41,437
055               P-8 SERIES...........         107,539          96,563
                      Increment 3 ECP 6                        [-10,976]
                      early to need
                      (OSIP 006-18).
056               MAGTF EW FOR AVIATION          26,536          26,536
057               MQ-8 SERIES..........          34,686          34,686
058               V-22 (TILT/ROTOR              325,367         325,367
                   ACFT) OSPREY.
059               NEXT GENERATION                 6,223           3,111
                   JAMMER (NGJ).
                      Program reduction                         [-3,112]
060               F-35 STOVL SERIES....          65,585          65,585
061               F-35 CV SERIES.......          15,358          15,358
062               QRC..................         165,016         146,558
                      Program decrease.                        [-18,458]
063               MQ-4 SERIES..........          27,994          27,994
064               RQ-21 SERIES.........          66,282          61,032
                      EO/IR turret                              [-5,250]
                      upgrades unit
                      cost growth (OSIP
                      004-20).
                  AIRCRAFT SPARES AND
                   REPAIR PARTS
067               SPARES AND REPAIR           2,166,788       2,146,788
                   PARTS.
                      MQ-4 Triton                              [-20,000]
                      spares excess
                      growth.
                  AIRCRAFT SUPPORT
                   EQUIP & FACILITIES
068               COMMON GROUND                 491,025         470,025
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Other flight                             [-21,000]
                      training
                      previously funded.
069               AIRCRAFT INDUSTRIAL            71,335          71,335
                   FACILITIES.
070               WAR CONSUMABLES......          41,086          32,086
                      BRU-61 previously                         [-9,000]
                      funded.
072               SPECIAL SUPPORT               135,740         135,740
                   EQUIPMENT.
073               FIRST DESTINATION                 892             892
                   TRANSPORTATION.
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT        18,522,204      18,961,816
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  WEAPONS PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   MISSILES
001               TRIDENT II MODS......       1,177,251       1,177,251
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES
002               MISSILE INDUSTRIAL              7,142           7,142
                   FACILITIES.
                  STRATEGIC MISSILES
003               TOMAHAWK.............         386,730         344,648
                      Unjustified                              [-42,082]
                      tooling and
                      facilitization
                      costs.
                  TACTICAL MISSILES
004               AMRAAM...............         224,502         201,502
                      Unit cost growth.                        [-23,000]
005               SIDEWINDER...........         119,456         117,404
                      Program reduction                         [-2,052]
007               STANDARD MISSILE.....         404,523         404,523
008               STANDARD MISSILE.....          96,085          96,085
009               SMALL DIAMETER BOMB           118,466         115,828
                   II.
                      Program reduction                         [-2,638]
010               RAM..................         106,765         106,765
012               HELLFIRE.............           1,525           1,525
015               AERIAL TARGETS.......         145,880         145,880
016               DRONES AND DECOYS....          20,000          18,521
                      Excess to need...                         [-1,479]
017               OTHER MISSILE SUPPORT           3,388           3,388
018               LRASM................         143,200         143,200
019               LCS OTH MISSILE......          38,137          38,137
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   MISSILES
020               ESSM.................         128,059         110,059
                      Production                               [-18,000]
                      support excess to
                      need.
021               HARPOON MODS.........          25,447          25,447
022               HARM MODS............         183,740         183,740
023               STANDARD MISSILES              22,500           2,500
                   MODS.
                      Early to need....                        [-20,000]
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES
024               WEAPONS INDUSTRIAL              1,958           1,958
                   FACILITIES.
025               FLEET SATELLITE COMM           67,380          67,380
                   FOLLOW-ON.
                  ORDNANCE SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
027               ORDNANCE SUPPORT              109,427          85,717
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Insufficient                             [-23,710]
                      budget
                      justifcation.
                  TORPEDOES AND RELATED
                   EQUIP
028               SSTD.................           5,561           5,561
029               MK-48 TORPEDO........         114,000         130,000
                      Program increase.                         [16,000]
030               ASW TARGETS..........          15,095          15,095
                  MOD OF TORPEDOES AND
                   RELATED EQUIP
031               MK-54 TORPEDO MODS...         119,453         112,013
                      HAAWC cost growth                         [-7,440]
032               MK-48 TORPEDO ADCAP            39,508          39,508
                   MODS.
033               QUICKSTRIKE MINE.....           5,183           5,183
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
034               TORPEDO SUPPORT                79,028          79,028
                   EQUIPMENT.
035               ASW RANGE SUPPORT....           3,890           3,890
                  DESTINATION
                   TRANSPORTATION
036               FIRST DESTINATION               3,803           3,803
                   TRANSPORTATION.
                  GUNS AND GUN MOUNTS
037               SMALL ARMS AND                 14,797          13,607
                   WEAPONS.
                      Program reduction                         [-1,190]
                  MODIFICATION OF GUNS
                   AND GUN MOUNTS
038               CIWS MODS............          44,126          44,126
039               COAST GUARD WEAPONS..          44,980          44,980
040               GUN MOUNT MODS.......          66,376          66,376
041               LCS MODULE WEAPONS...          14,585          14,585
043               AIRBORNE MINE                   7,160           7,160
                   NEUTRALIZATION
                   SYSTEMS.
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
                  UNDISTRIBUTED
045               SPARES AND REPAIR             126,138         124,390
                   PARTS.
                      Program reduction                         [-1,748]
                       TOTAL WEAPONS          4,235,244       4,107,905
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF AMMO,
                   NAVY & MC
                  NAVY AMMUNITION
001               GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS          36,028          34,997
                      Fuze contract                             [-1,031]
                      delay and unit
                      cost growth.
002               JDAM.................          70,413          70,413
003               AIRBORNE ROCKETS, ALL          31,756          27,707
                   TYPES.
                      Unit cost growth.                         [-4,049]
004               MACHINE GUN                     4,793           4,793
                   AMMUNITION.
005               PRACTICE BOMBS.......          34,708          27,208
                      Q1300 LGTR unit                           [-7,500]
                      cost growth.
006               CARTRIDGES & CART              45,738          38,738
                   ACTUATED DEVICES.
                      Contract and                              [-7,000]
                      schedule delays.
007               AIR EXPENDABLE                 77,301          67,854
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
                      Unit cost growth.                         [-9,447]
008               JATOS................           7,262           7,262
009               5 INCH/54 GUN                  22,594          21,166
                   AMMUNITION.
                      MK187 mod 0                               [-1,428]
                      projectile unit
                      cost growth.
010               INTERMEDIATE CALIBER           37,193          37,193
                   GUN AMMUNITION.
011               OTHER SHIP GUN                 39,491          39,291
                   AMMUNITION.
                      CART 20MM                                   [-200]
                      contract award
                      delay.
012               SMALL ARMS & LANDING           47,896          47,896
                   PARTY AMMO.
013               PYROTECHNIC AND                10,621          10,621
                   DEMOLITION.
015               AMMUNITION LESS THAN            2,386           2,386
                   $5 MILLION.
                  MARINE CORPS
                   AMMUNITION
016               MORTARS..............          55,543          50,543
                      Prior year                                [-5,000]
                      underexecution.
017               DIRECT SUPPORT                131,765         131,765
                   MUNITIONS.
018               INFANTRY WEAPONS               78,056          52,088
                   AMMUNITION.
                      Underexecution                           [-25,968]
                      and schedule
                      delays.
019               COMBAT SUPPORT                 40,048          34,048
                   MUNITIONS.
                      Unit cost growth.                         [-6,000]
020               AMMO MODERNIZATION...          14,325          14,325
021               ARTILLERY MUNITIONS..         188,876         167,476
                      DA 54 contract                           [-21,400]
                      delay.
022               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              4,521           4,521
                   MILLION.
                       TOTAL                    981,314         892,291
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMO, NAVY & MC.
 
                  SHIPBUILDING AND
                   CONVERSION, NAVY
                  FLEET BALLISTIC
                   MISSILE SHIPS
001               OHIO REPLACEMENT            1,698,907       1,821,907
                   SUBMARINE.
                      Submarine                                [123,000]
                      supplier
                      development.
                  OTHER WARSHIPS
002               CARRIER REPLACEMENT         2,347,000       1,042,000
                   PROGRAM.
                      Basic                                    [-20,000]
                      construction/
                      conversion excess
                      cost growth.
                      Restoring                             [-1,285,000]
                      acquisition
                      accountability:
                      Transfer CVN-81
                      only to line 2X.
002A              CARRIER REPLACEMENT                         1,285,000
                   PROGRAM.
                      For CVN-81 only..                      [1,285,000]
003               VIRGINIA CLASS              7,155,946       5,445,946
                   SUBMARINE.
                      Block V program                        [1,490,000]
                      increase.
                      SSN-812 program                       [-3,200,000]
                      decrease.
004               VIRGINIA CLASS              2,769,552       2,969,552
                   SUBMARINE ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT.
                      Advance                                  [200,000]
                      Procurement in
                      support of a 10th
                      multi-year
                      procurement
                      contract ship
                      only.
005               CVN REFUELING                 647,926         631,926
                   OVERHAULS.
                      CVN-74 RCOH                              [-16,000]
                      unjustified cost
                      growth.
006               CVN REFUELING                                  16,900
                   OVERHAULS ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT.
                      Restore CVN-75                            [16,900]
                      RCOH.
007               DDG 1000.............         155,944         155,944
008               DDG-51...............       5,099,295       5,033,295
                      Basic                                    [-66,000]
                      Construction
                      excess growth.
009               DDG-51 ADVANCE                224,028         484,028
                   PROCUREMENT.
                      Accelerate LLTM                          [260,000]
                      for FY21 Flight
                      III destroyers.
011               FFG-FRIGATE..........       1,281,177       1,281,177
                  AMPHIBIOUS SHIPS
012               LPD FLIGHT II........                         525,000
                      LPD-31 program                           [277,900]
                      increase.
                      Transfer from                            [247,100]
                      line 13.
013               LPD FLIGHT II ADVANCE         247,100               0
                   PROCUREMENT.
                      Transfer to line                        [-247,100]
                      12.
015               LHA REPLACEMENT......                         650,000
                      LHA-9 program                            [650,000]
                      increase.
                  AUXILIARIES, CRAFT
                   AND PRIOR YR PROGRAM
                   COST
018               TAO FLEET OILER......         981,215         981,215
019               TAO FLEET OILER                73,000          73,000
                   ADVANCE PROCUREMENT.
020               TOWING, SALVAGE, AND          150,282         150,282
                   RESCUE SHIP (ATS).
022               LCU 1700.............          85,670          85,670
023               OUTFITTING...........         754,679         705,721
                      Excess cost                              [-40,000]
                      growth.
                      Virginia class                            [-8,958]
                      outfitting excess
                      growth.
024               SHIP TO SHORE                                  65,000
                   CONNECTOR.
                      Program increase.                         [65,000]
025               SERVICE CRAFT........          56,289          81,789
                      Accelerate YP-703                         [25,500]
                      Flight II.
028               COMPLETION OF PY               55,700         104,700
                   SHIPBUILDING
                   PROGRAMS.
                      UPL EPF-14                                [49,000]
                      conversion.
                       TOTAL                 23,783,710      23,590,052
                       SHIPBUILDING AND
                       CONVERSION, NAVY.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  SHIP PROPULSION
                   EQUIPMENT
001               SURFACE POWER                  14,490          14,490
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  GENERATORS
002               SURFACE COMBATANT              31,583          31,561
                   HM&E.;
                      Twisted rudder                               [-22]
                      installation
                      early to need.
                  NAVIGATION EQUIPMENT
003               OTHER NAVIGATION               77,404          77,404
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  OTHER SHIPBOARD
                   EQUIPMENT
004               SUB PERISCOPE,                160,803         160,803
                   IMAGING AND SUPT
                   EQUIP PROG.
005               DDG MOD..............         566,140         553,490
                      Aegis                                     [-5,000]
                      modernization
                      testing excess to
                      need.
                      Combat system                             [-7,650]
                      ship
                      qualification
                      trials excess to
                      need.
006               FIREFIGHTING                   18,223          18,223
                   EQUIPMENT.
007               COMMAND AND CONTROL             2,086           2,086
                   SWITCHBOARD.
008               LHA/LHD MIDLIFE......          95,651          79,563
                      Excess cost                              [-16,088]
                      growth.
009               POLLUTION CONTROL              23,910          23,910
                   EQUIPMENT.
010               SUBMARINE SUPPORT              44,895          44,895
                   EQUIPMENT.
011               VIRGINIA CLASS                 28,465          28,465
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.
012               LCS CLASS SUPPORT              19,426          19,426
                   EQUIPMENT.
013               SUBMARINE BATTERIES..          26,290          25,297
                      Virginia class                              [-993]
                      unit cost growth.
014               LPD CLASS SUPPORT              46,945          46,945
                   EQUIPMENT.
015               DDG 1000 CLASS                  9,930           9,930
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.
016               STRATEGIC PLATFORM             14,331          14,331
                   SUPPORT EQUIP.
017               DSSP EQUIPMENT.......           2,909           2,909
018               CG MODERNIZATION.....         193,990         193,990
019               LCAC.................           3,392           3,392
020               UNDERWATER EOD                 71,240          71,240
                   PROGRAMS.
021               ITEMS LESS THAN $5            102,543         102,543
                   MILLION.
022               CHEMICAL WARFARE                2,961           2,961
                   DETECTORS.
023               SUBMARINE LIFE                  6,635           6,635
                   SUPPORT SYSTEM.
                  REACTOR PLANT
                   EQUIPMENT
024               REACTOR POWER UNITS..           5,340           5,340
025               REACTOR COMPONENTS...         465,726         462,749
                      Program decrease--                        [-2,977]
                      unit cost growth.
                  OCEAN ENGINEERING
026               DIVING AND SALVAGE             11,854          11,854
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  SMALL BOATS
027               STANDARD BOATS.......          79,102          79,102
                  PRODUCTION FACILITIES
                   EQUIPMENT
028               OPERATING FORCES IPE.         202,238         202,238
                  OTHER SHIP SUPPORT
029               LCS COMMON MISSION             51,553          51,553
                   MODULES EQUIPMENT.
030               LCS MCM MISSION               197,129         134,157
                   MODULES.
                      Excess cost                              [-62,972]
                      growth.
031               LCS ASW MISSION                27,754          27,754
                   MODULES.
032               LCS SUW MISSION                26,566          26,566
                   MODULES.
033               LCS IN-SERVICE                 84,972          82,000
                   MODERNIZATION.
                      Habitability mod                          [-2,972]
                      (Freedom variant)
                      unit cost growth.
034               SMALL & MEDIUM UUV...          40,547          10,647
                      Knifefish early                          [-29,900]
                      to need.
                  LOGISTIC SUPPORT
035               LSD MIDLIFE &                  40,269          40,269
                   MODERNIZATION.
                  SHIP SONARS
036               SPQ-9B RADAR.........          26,195          26,195
037               AN/SQQ-89 SURF ASW            125,237         125,237
                   COMBAT SYSTEM.
038               SSN ACOUSTIC                  366,968         356,953
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Low cost                                 [-10,015]
                      conformal array
                      contract delay.
039               UNDERSEA WARFARE                8,967           8,967
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.
                  ASW ELECTRONIC
                   EQUIPMENT
040               SUBMARINE ACOUSTIC             23,545          23,545
                   WARFARE SYSTEM.
041               SSTD.................          12,439          12,439
042               FIXED SURVEILLANCE            128,441         128,441
                   SYSTEM.
043               SURTASS..............          21,923          21,923
                  ELECTRONIC WARFARE
                   EQUIPMENT
044               AN/SLQ-32............         420,154         350,686
                      Block 3 kit early                        [-65,758]
                      to need.
                      FMP block 1B3 for                         [-2,300]
                      SLQ-32(V) 6
                      previously funded.
                      SEWIP block 1B2                           [-1,410]
                      for USCG ship
                      forward fit
                      contract delays.
                  RECONNAISSANCE
                   EQUIPMENT
045               SHIPBOARD IW EXPLOIT.         194,758         193,440
                      SSEE                                      [-1,318]
                      modifications
                      kits unit cost
                      growth.
046               AUTOMATED                       5,368           5,368
                   IDENTIFICATION
                   SYSTEM (AIS).
                  OTHER SHIP ELECTRONIC
                   EQUIPMENT
047               COOPERATIVE                    35,128          35,128
                   ENGAGEMENT
                   CAPABILITY.
048               NAVAL TACTICAL                 15,154          15,154
                   COMMAND SUPPORT
                   SYSTEM (NTCSS).
049               ATDLS................          52,753          52,753
050               NAVY COMMAND AND                3,390           3,390
                   CONTROL SYSTEM
                   (NCCS).
051               MINESWEEPING SYSTEM            19,448          19,448
                   REPLACEMENT.
052               SHALLOW WATER MCM....           8,730           8,730
053               NAVSTAR GPS RECEIVERS          32,674          32,674
                   (SPACE).
054               AMERICAN FORCES RADIO           2,617           2,617
                   AND TV SERVICE.
055               STRATEGIC PLATFORM              7,973           7,973
                   SUPPORT EQUIP.
                  AVIATION ELECTRONIC
                   EQUIPMENT
056               ASHORE ATC EQUIPMENT.          72,406          72,406
057               AFLOAT ATC EQUIPMENT.          67,410          65,779
                      ACLS mod kits                             [-1,631]
                      installations
                      cost growth.
058               ID SYSTEMS...........          26,059          26,059
059               JOINT PRECISION                92,695          78,195
                   APPROACH AND LANDING
                   SYSTEM (.
                      Early to need....                        [-14,500]
060               NAVAL MISSION                  15,296          15,296
                   PLANNING SYSTEMS.
                  OTHER SHORE
                   ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
061               TACTICAL/MOBILE C4I            36,226          36,226
                   SYSTEMS.
062               DCGS-N...............          21,788          21,427
                      DCGS-N increment                            [-361]
                      2 kit unit cost
                      discrepancy.
063               CANES................         426,654         395,154
                      Program decrease.                        [-31,500]
064               RADIAC...............           6,450           6,450
065               CANES-INTELL.........          52,713          52,713
066               GPETE................          13,028          13,028
067               MASF.................           5,193           5,193
068               INTEG COMBAT SYSTEM             6,028           6,028
                   TEST FACILITY.
069               EMI CONTROL                     4,209           4,209
                   INSTRUMENTATION.
070               ITEMS LESS THAN $5            168,436         144,636
                   MILLION.
                      NGSSR early to                           [-23,800]
                      need.
                  SHIPBOARD
                   COMMUNICATIONS
071               SHIPBOARD TACTICAL             55,853          50,053
                   COMMUNICATIONS.
                      DMR IW and MUOS                           [-5,800]
                      system
                      procurement
                      afloat previously
                      funded.
072               SHIP COMMUNICATIONS           137,861         122,380
                   AUTOMATION.
                      STACC cost growth                        [-15,481]
073               COMMUNICATIONS ITEMS           35,093          31,493
                   UNDER $5M.
                      Improving funds                           [-3,600]
                      management: prior
                      year carryover.
                  SUBMARINE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
074               SUBMARINE BROADCAST            50,833          50,833
                   SUPPORT.
075               SUBMARINE                      69,643          60,794
                   COMMUNICATION
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Buoy shape                                [-8,849]
                      improvement
                      unjustified
                      request.
                  SATELLITE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
076               SATELLITE                      45,841          45,841
                   COMMUNICATIONS
                   SYSTEMS.
077               NAVY MULTIBAND                 88,021          82,148
                   TERMINAL (NMT).
                      Afloat ship kit                           [-4,055]
                      cost growth.
                      Assured C2 modems                         [-1,818]
                      installation cost
                      excess growth.
                  SHORE COMMUNICATIONS
078               JOINT COMMUNICATIONS            4,293           4,293
                   SUPPORT ELEMENT
                   (JCSE).
                  CRYPTOGRAPHIC
                   EQUIPMENT
079               INFO SYSTEMS SECURITY         166,540         166,540
                   PROGRAM (ISSP).
080               MIO INTEL                         968             968
                   EXPLOITATION TEAM.
                  CRYPTOLOGIC EQUIPMENT
081               CRYPTOLOGIC                    13,090          13,090
                   COMMUNICATIONS EQUIP.
                  OTHER ELECTRONIC
                   SUPPORT
083               COAST GUARD EQUIPMENT          61,370          61,370
                  SONOBUOYS
085               SONOBUOYS--ALL TYPES.         260,644         310,644
                      UPL sonobuoy                              [50,000]
                      increase.
                  AIRCRAFT SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
086               MINOTAUR.............           5,000           5,000
087               WEAPONS RANGE SUPPORT         101,843         101,843
                   EQUIPMENT.
088               AIRCRAFT SUPPORT              145,601         135,211
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Excess cost                              [-10,390]
                      growth.
089               ADVANCED ARRESTING              4,725           4,725
                   GEAR (AAG).
090               METEOROLOGICAL                 14,687          12,407
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      ASOS upgrades                             [-2,280]
                      unit cost growth.
092               LEGACY AIRBORNE MCM..          19,250          18,918
                      Modifications                               [-332]
                      unjustified
                      growth.
093               LAMPS EQUIPMENT......             792             792
094               AVIATION SUPPORT               55,415          52,415
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Contract delay...                         [-3,000]
095               UMCS-UNMAN CARRIER             32,668          32,668
                   AVIATION(UCA)MISSION
                   CNTRL.
                  SHIP GUN SYSTEM
                   EQUIPMENT
096               SHIP GUN SYSTEMS                5,451           5,451
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  SHIP MISSILE SYSTEMS
                   EQUIPMENT
097               HARPOON SUPPORT                 1,100           1,100
                   EQUIPMENT.
098               SHIP MISSILE SUPPORT          228,104         268,304
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Program increase.                         [40,200]
099               TOMAHAWK SUPPORT               78,593          78,593
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  FBM SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
100               STRATEGIC MISSILE             280,510         280,510
                   SYSTEMS EQUIP.
                  ASW SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
101               SSN COMBAT CONTROL            148,547         143,678
                   SYSTEMS.
                      Excess cost                               [-4,869]
                      growth.
102               ASW SUPPORT EQUIPMENT          21,130          21,130
                  OTHER ORDNANCE
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
103               EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE             15,244          15,244
                   DISPOSAL EQUIP.
104               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              5,071           5,071
                   MILLION.
                  OTHER EXPENDABLE
                   ORDNANCE
105               ANTI-SHIP MISSILE              41,962          41,962
                   DECOY SYSTEM.
106               SUBMARINE TRAINING             75,057          75,057
                   DEVICE MODS.
107               SURFACE TRAINING              233,175         222,647
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      BFFT ship sets                            [-1,515]
                      excess to need.
                      LCS trainer                               [-9,013]
                      equipment early
                      to need.
                  CIVIL ENGINEERING
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
108               PASSENGER CARRYING              4,562           4,562
                   VEHICLES.
109               GENERAL PURPOSE                10,974          10,974
                   TRUCKS.
110               CONSTRUCTION &                 43,191          43,191
                   MAINTENANCE EQUIP.
111               FIRE FIGHTING                  21,142          11,642
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Contract delays..                         [-9,500]
112               TACTICAL VEHICLES....          33,432          33,432
114               POLLUTION CONTROL               2,633           2,633
                   EQUIPMENT.
115               ITEMS UNDER $5                 53,467          53,467
                   MILLION.
116               PHYSICAL SECURITY               1,173           1,173
                   VEHICLES.
                  SUPPLY SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
117               SUPPLY EQUIPMENT.....          16,730          16,730
118               FIRST DESTINATION               5,389           5,389
                   TRANSPORTATION.
119               SPECIAL PURPOSE               654,674         617,522
                   SUPPLY SYSTEMS.
                      Insufficient                             [-37,152]
                      budget
                      justification.
                  TRAINING DEVICES
120               TRAINING SUPPORT                3,633           3,633
                   EQUIPMENT.
121               TRAINING AND                   97,636          94,536
                   EDUCATION EQUIPMENT.
                      Excess growth....                         [-3,100]
                  COMMAND SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
122               COMMAND SUPPORT                66,102          50,434
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Prior year                               [-15,668]
                      underexecution.
123               MEDICAL SUPPORT                 3,633           3,633
                   EQUIPMENT.
125               NAVAL MIP SUPPORT               6,097           6,097
                   EQUIPMENT.
126               OPERATING FORCES               16,905          16,905
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.
127               C4ISR EQUIPMENT......          30,146          30,146
128               ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT          21,986          21,986
                   EQUIPMENT.
129               PHYSICAL SECURITY             160,046         160,046
                   EQUIPMENT.
130               ENTERPRISE                     56,899          56,899
                   INFORMATION
                   TECHNOLOGY.
                  OTHER
133               NEXT GENERATION               122,832         122,832
                   ENTERPRISE SERVICE.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
133A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..          16,346          16,346
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
134               SPARES AND REPAIR             375,608         352,140
                   PARTS.
                      JPALS spares                              [-8,137]
                      early to need.
                      LCS spares early                         [-15,331]
                      to need.
                       TOTAL OTHER            9,652,956       9,302,099
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT, MARINE
                   CORPS
                  TRACKED COMBAT
                   VEHICLES
001               AAV7A1 PIP...........          39,495          39,495
002               AMPHIBIOUS COMBAT             317,935         313,131
                   VEHICLE 1.1.
                      Excess                                    [-4,804]
                      engineering
                      change orders.
003               LAV PIP..............          60,734          60,734
                  ARTILLERY AND OTHER
                   WEAPONS
004               155MM LIGHTWEIGHT              25,065          25,065
                   TOWED HOWITZER.
005               ARTILLERY WEAPONS             100,002          90,002
                   SYSTEM.
                      Equipment                                [-10,000]
                      previously funded
                      and cost growth.
006               WEAPONS AND COMBAT             31,945          31,945
                   VEHICLES UNDER $5
                   MILLION.
                  OTHER SUPPORT
007               MODIFICATION KITS....          22,760          22,760
                  GUIDED MISSILES
008               GROUND BASED AIR              175,998         175,998
                   DEFENSE.
009               ANTI-ARMOR MISSILE-            20,207          20,207
                   JAVELIN.
010               FAMILY ANTI-ARMOR              21,913          21,913
                   WEAPON SYSTEMS
                   (FOAAWS).
011               ANTI-ARMOR MISSILE-            60,501          60,501
                   TOW.
012               GUIDED MLRS ROCKET             29,062          28,062
                   (GMLRS).
                      Unit cost                                 [-1,000]
                      discrepancy.
                  COMMAND AND CONTROL
                   SYSTEMS
013               COMMON AVIATION                37,203          32,203
                   COMMAND AND CONTROL
                   SYSTEM (C.
                      AN/MRQ-13                                 [-5,000]
                      communications
                      subsystems
                      upgrades
                      unjustified
                      growth.
                  REPAIR AND TEST
                   EQUIPMENT
014               REPAIR AND TEST                55,156          55,156
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  OTHER SUPPORT (TEL)
015               MODIFICATION KITS....           4,945           4,945
                  COMMAND AND CONTROL
                   SYSTEM (NON-TEL)
016               ITEMS UNDER $5                112,124          82,424
                   MILLION (COMM &
                   ELEC).
                      Unit cost growth.                        [-29,700]
017               AIR OPERATIONS C2              17,408          17,408
                   SYSTEMS.
                  RADAR + EQUIPMENT
                   (NON-TEL)
018               RADAR SYSTEMS........             329             329
019               GROUND/AIR TASK               273,022         273,022
                   ORIENTED RADAR (G/
                   ATOR).
                  INTELL/COMM EQUIPMENT
                   (NON-TEL)
021               GCSS-MC..............           4,484           4,484
022               FIRE SUPPORT SYSTEM..          35,488          35,488
023               INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT           56,896          54,396
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Unjustified                               [-2,500]
                      growth.
025               UNMANNED AIR SYSTEMS           34,711          34,711
                   (INTEL).
026               DCGS-MC..............          32,562          32,562
                  OTHER SUPPORT (NON-
                   TEL)
030               NEXT GENERATION               114,901         114,901
                   ENTERPRISE NETWORK
                   (NGEN).
031               COMMON COMPUTER                51,094          51,094
                   RESOURCES.
032               COMMAND POST SYSTEMS.         108,897         108,897
033               RADIO SYSTEMS........         227,320         212,320
                      Cost growth and                          [-15,000]
                      early to need.
034               COMM SWITCHING &               31,685          23,781
                   CONTROL SYSTEMS.
                      ECP small form                            [-7,904]
                      factor previously
                      funded.
035               COMM & ELEC                    21,140          21,140
                   INFRASTRUCTURE
                   SUPPORT.
036               CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES          27,632          27,632
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
036A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..           5,535           5,535
                  ADMINISTRATIVE
                   VEHICLES
037               COMMERCIAL CARGO               28,913          28,913
                   VEHICLES.
                  TACTICAL VEHICLES
038               MOTOR TRANSPORT                19,234          19,234
                   MODIFICATIONS.
039               JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL          558,107         556,107
                   VEHICLE.
                      ECP previously                            [-2,000]
                      funded.
040               FAMILY OF TACTICAL              2,693           2,693
                   TRAILERS.
                  ENGINEER AND OTHER
                   EQUIPMENT
041               ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL             495             495
                   EQUIP ASSORT.
042               TACTICAL FUEL SYSTEMS              52              52
043               POWER EQUIPMENT                22,441          22,441
                   ASSORTED.
044               AMPHIBIOUS SUPPORT              7,101           7,101
                   EQUIPMENT.
045               EOD SYSTEMS..........          44,700          44,700
                  MATERIALS HANDLING
                   EQUIPMENT
046               PHYSICAL SECURITY              15,404          15,404
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  GENERAL PROPERTY
047               FIELD MEDICAL                   2,898           2,898
                   EQUIPMENT.
048               TRAINING DEVICES.....         149,567         126,567
                      ODS unjustified                          [-23,000]
                      request.
049               FAMILY OF                      35,622          35,622
                   CONSTRUCTION
                   EQUIPMENT.
050               ULTRA-LIGHT TACTICAL              647             647
                   VEHICLE (ULTV).
                  OTHER SUPPORT
051               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             10,956          10,956
                   MILLION.
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
052               SPARES AND REPAIR              33,470          33,470
                   PARTS.
                       TOTAL                  3,090,449       2,989,541
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       MARINE CORPS.
 
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  TACTICAL FORCES
001               F-35.................       4,274,359       5,566,409
                      Program increase.                      [1,042,800]
                      Program increase:                        [440,000]
                      Turkish F-35A
                      Reallocation
                      Initiative.
                      Target cost                             [-190,750]
                      savings.
002               F-35.................         655,500         811,500
                      UPL Increase.....                        [156,000]
003               F-15E................       1,050,000         985,500
                      Unjustified non-                         [-64,500]
                      recurring
                      engineering.
                  TACTICAL AIRLIFT
005               KC-46A MDAP..........       2,234,529       2,198,529
                      Excess to need...                        [-36,000]
                  OTHER AIRLIFT
006               C-130J...............          12,156         404,156
                      Program increase.                        [392,000]
008               MC-130J..............         871,207         857,607
                      Excess to need...                        [-13,600]
009               MC-130J..............          40,000          40,000
                  HELICOPTERS
010               COMBAT RESCUE                 884,235         876,035
                   HELICOPTER.
                      Excess to need...                         [-8,200]
                  MISSION SUPPORT
                   AIRCRAFT
011               C-37A................         161,000         147,500
                      Unit cost growth.                        [-13,500]
012               CIVIL AIR PATROL A/C.           2,767           2,767
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
014               TARGET DRONES........         130,837         130,837
015               COMPASS CALL.........         114,095         114,095
017               MQ-9.................         189,205         175,205
                      Unit cost growth.                        [-14,000]
                  STRATEGIC AIRCRAFT
019               B-2A.................           9,582           9,582
020               B-1B.................          22,111          13,111
                      ADS-B ahead of                            [-9,000]
                      need.
021               B-52.................          69,648          69,648
022               LARGE AIRCRAFT                 43,758          43,758
                   INFRARED
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
                  TACTICAL AIRCRAFT
023               A-10.................         132,069         132,069
024               E-11 BACN/HAG........          70,027          70,027
025               F-15.................         481,073         467,767
                      ADCP unnecessary                         [-13,306]
                      due to F-15X.
026               F-16.................         234,782         309,782
                      Additional radars                         [75,000]
028               F-22A................         323,597         323,597
030               F-35 MODIFICATIONS...         343,590         343,590
031               F-15 EPAW............         149,047         125,417
                      Not required                             [-23,630]
                      because of F-15X.
032               INCREMENT 3.2B.......          20,213          20,213
033               KC-46A MDAP..........          10,213           5,213
                      Funding ahead of                          [-5,000]
                      need.
                  AIRLIFT AIRCRAFT
034               C-5..................          73,550          73,550
036               C-17A................          60,244          60,244
037               C-21.................             216             216
038               C-32A................          11,511          11,511
039               C-37A................             435             435
                  TRAINER AIRCRAFT
040               GLIDER MODS..........             138             138
041               T-6..................          11,826          11,826
042               T-1..................          26,787          26,787
043               T-38.................          37,341          37,341
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
044               U-2 MODS.............          86,896         106,896
                      Increase for U-2                          [20,000]
                      enhancements.
045               KC-10A (ATCA)........           2,108           2,108
046               C-12.................           3,021           3,021
047               VC-25A MOD...........          48,624          48,624
048               C-40.................             256             256
049               C-130................          52,066         186,066
                      3.5 Engine                                [79,000]
                      Enhancement
                      Package.
                      NP-2000 prop                              [55,000]
                      blade upgrades.
050               C-130J MODS..........         141,686         141,686
051               C-135................         124,491         122,616
                      Low cost mods                             [-1,000]
                      slow execution.
                      RPI installs.....                           [-875]
053               COMPASS CALL.........         110,754         110,754
054               COMBAT FLIGHT                     508             508
                   INSPECTION--CFIN.
055               RC-135...............         227,673         227,673
056               E-3..................         216,299         128,992
                      NATO AWACS--Air                          [-87,307]
                      Force requested
                      transfer to line
                      88.
057               E-4..................          58,477          58,477
058               E-8..................          28,778          48,778
                      Increase for re-                          [20,000]
                      engining.
059               AIRBORNE WARNING AND           36,000          36,000
                   CNTRL SYS (AWACS) 40/
                   45.
060               FAMILY OF BEYOND LINE-          7,910           7,910
                   OF-SIGHT TERMINALS.
061               H-1..................           3,817           3,817
062               H-60.................          20,879          20,879
063               RQ-4 MODS............           1,704           1,704
064               HC/MC-130                      51,482          51,482
                   MODIFICATIONS.
065               OTHER AIRCRAFT.......          50,098          50,098
066               MQ-9 MODS............         383,594         251,594
                      Production rate                         [-132,000]
                      adjustment of DAS-
                      4 sensor.
068               CV-22 MODS...........          65,348          65,348
                  AIRCRAFT SPARES AND
                   REPAIR PARTS
069               INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR         708,230         799,230
                   PARTS.
                      F-35 spares......                         [96,000]
                      Program decrease.                        [-30,000]
                      RQ-4.............                         [25,000]
                  COMMON SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
072               AIRCRAFT REPLACEMENT           84,938          84,938
                   SUPPORT EQUIP.
                  POST PRODUCTION
                   SUPPORT
073               B-2A.................           1,403           1,403
074               B-2B.................          42,234          42,234
075               B-52.................           4,641           4,641
076               C-17A................         124,805         124,805
079               F-15.................           2,589           2,589
081               F-16.................          15,348          15,348
084               RQ-4 POST PRODUCTION           47,246          47,246
                   CHARGES.
                  INDUSTRIAL
                   PREPAREDNESS
086               INDUSTRIAL                     17,705          17,705
                   RESPONSIVENESS.
                  WAR CONSUMABLES
087               WAR CONSUMABLES......          32,102          32,102
                  OTHER PRODUCTION
                   CHARGES
088               OTHER PRODUCTION            1,194,728       1,222,035
                   CHARGES.
                      F-22 NGEN lab                            [-60,000]
                      excess.
                      NATO AWACS--Air                           [87,307]
                      Force requested
                      transfer from
                      line 56.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
090A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..          34,193          34,193
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT        16,784,279      18,569,718
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  MISSILE PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  MISSILE REPLACEMENT
                   EQUIPMENT--BALLISTIC
001               MISSILE REPLACEMENT            55,888          55,888
                   EQ-BALLISTIC.
                  TACTICAL
002               REPLAC EQUIP & WAR              9,100           9,100
                   CONSUMABLES.
003               JOINT AIR-TO-GROUND            15,000           7,500
                   MUNITION.
                      Unjustified                               [-7,500]
                      requirement (JAGM-
                      F).
004               JOINT AIR-SURFACE             482,525         482,525
                   STANDOFF MISSILE.
006               SIDEWINDER (AIM-9X)..         160,408         160,408
007               AMRAAM...............         332,250         332,250
008               PREDATOR HELLFIRE             118,860         118,860
                   MISSILE.
009               SMALL DIAMETER BOMB..         275,438         275,438
010               SMALL DIAMETER BOMB           212,434         200,684
                   II.
                      Unit cost growth.                        [-11,750]
                  INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES
011               INDUSTR'L PREPAREDNS/             801             801
                   POL PREVENTION.
                  CLASS IV
012               ICBM FUZE MOD........           5,000           5,000
013               ICBM FUZE MOD........          14,497          14,497
014               MM III MODIFICATIONS.          50,831          59,705
                      Air Force                                  [8,874]
                      requested
                      transfer.
015               AGM-65D MAVERICK.....             294             294
016               AIR LAUNCH CRUISE              77,387          68,513
                   MISSILE (ALCM).
                      Air Force                                 [-8,874]
                      requested
                      transfer.
                  MISSILE SPARES AND
                   REPAIR PARTS
018               MSL SPRS/REPAIR PARTS           1,910           1,910
                   (INITIAL).
019               REPLEN SPARES/REPAIR           82,490          82,490
                   PARTS.
                  SPECIAL PROGRAMS
023               SPECIAL UPDATE                144,553         144,553
                   PROGRAMS.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
023A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..         849,521         849,521
                       TOTAL MISSILE          2,889,187       2,869,937
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  SPACE PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  SPACE PROGRAMS
001               ADVANCED EHF.........          31,894          31,894
002               AF SATELLITE COMM              56,298          56,298
                   SYSTEM.
004               COUNTERSPACE SYSTEMS.           5,700           5,700
005               FAMILY OF BEYOND LINE-         34,020          29,020
                   OF-SIGHT TERMINALS.
                      Unjustified                               [-5,000]
                      growth.
007               GENERAL INFORMATION             3,244           3,244
                   TECH--SPACE.
008               GPSIII FOLLOW ON.....         414,625         414,625
009               GPS III SPACE SEGMENT          31,466          31,466
012               SPACEBORNE EQUIP               32,031          32,031
                   (COMSEC).
013               MILSATCOM............          11,096          11,096
015               EVOLVED EXPENDABLE          1,237,635       1,237,635
                   LAUNCH VEH(SPACE).
016               SBIR HIGH (SPACE)....         233,952         233,952
017               NUDET DETECTION                 7,432           7,432
                   SYSTEM.
018               ROCKET SYSTEMS LAUNCH          11,473          11,473
                   PROGRAM.
019               SPACE FENCE..........          71,784          71,784
020               SPACE MODS...........         106,330         106,330
021               SPACELIFT RANGE               118,140         118,140
                   SYSTEM SPACE.
                  SPACE PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  SPARES
022               SPARES AND REPAIR               7,263           7,263
                   PARTS.
                       TOTAL SPACE            2,414,383       2,409,383
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF
                   AMMUNITION, AIR
                   FORCE
                  ROCKETS
001               ROCKETS..............         133,268         115,068
                      APKWS Mk 66                              [-18,200]
                      rocket motor
                      price adjustment.
                  CARTRIDGES
002               CARTRIDGES...........         140,449         140,449
                  BOMBS
003               PRACTICE BOMBS.......          29,313          29,313
004               GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS          85,885          85,885
006               JOINT DIRECT ATTACK         1,066,224       1,034,224
                   MUNITION.
                      Tailkit unit cost                        [-32,000]
                      adjustment.
007               B61..................          80,773          80,773
                  OTHER ITEMS
009               CAD/PAD..............          47,069          47,069
010               EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE              6,133           6,133
                   DISPOSAL (EOD).
011               SPARES AND REPAIR                 533             533
                   PARTS.
012               MODIFICATIONS........           1,291           1,291
013               ITEMS LESS THAN                 1,677           1,677
                   $5,000,000.
                  FLARES
015               FLARES...............          36,116          36,116
                  FUZES
016               FUZES................           1,734           1,734
                  SMALL ARMS
017               SMALL ARMS...........          37,496          37,496
                       TOTAL                  1,667,961       1,617,761
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMUNITION, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  PASSENGER CARRYING
                   VEHICLES
001               PASSENGER CARRYING             15,238          15,238
                   VEHICLES.
                  CARGO AND UTILITY
                   VEHICLES
002               MEDIUM TACTICAL                34,616          34,616
                   VEHICLE.
003               CAP VEHICLES.........           1,040           3,567
                      Program increase--                         [1,867]
                      communications.
                      Program increase--                           [660]
                      vehicles.
004               CARGO AND UTILITY              23,133          23,133
                   VEHICLES.
                  SPECIAL PURPOSE
                   VEHICLES
005               JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL           32,027          32,027
                   VEHICLE.
006               SECURITY AND TACTICAL           1,315           1,315
                   VEHICLES.
007               SPECIAL PURPOSE                14,593          14,593
                   VEHICLES.
                  FIRE FIGHTING
                   EQUIPMENT
008               FIRE FIGHTING/CRASH            28,604          28,604
                   RESCUE VEHICLES.
                  MATERIALS HANDLING
                   EQUIPMENT
009               MATERIALS HANDLING             21,848          21,848
                   VEHICLES.
                  BASE MAINTENANCE
                   SUPPORT
010               RUNWAY SNOW REMOV AND           2,925           2,925
                   CLEANING EQU.
011               BASE MAINTENANCE               55,776          55,776
                   SUPPORT VEHICLES.
                  COMM SECURITY
                   EQUIPMENT(COMSEC)
013               COMSEC EQUIPMENT.....          91,461          91,461
                  INTELLIGENCE PROGRAMS
014               INTERNATIONAL INTEL            11,386          11,386
                   TECH & ARCHITECTURES.
015               INTELLIGENCE TRAINING           7,619           7,619
                   EQUIPMENT.
016               INTELLIGENCE COMM              35,558          32,058
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      IMAD unjustified                          [-3,500]
                      procurement.
                  ELECTRONICS PROGRAMS
017               AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL &          17,939          17,939
                   LANDING SYS.
019               BATTLE CONTROL                  3,063           3,063
                   SYSTEM--FIXED.
021               WEATHER OBSERVATION            31,447          31,447
                   FORECAST.
022               STRATEGIC COMMAND AND           5,090           5,090
                   CONTROL.
023               CHEYENNE MOUNTAIN              10,145          10,145
                   COMPLEX.
024               MISSION PLANNING               14,508          14,508
                   SYSTEMS.
026               INTEGRATED STRAT PLAN           9,901           9,901
                   & ANALY NETWORK
                   (ISPAN).
                  SPCL COMM-ELECTRONICS
                   PROJECTS
027               GENERAL INFORMATION            26,933          26,933
                   TECHNOLOGY.
028               AF GLOBAL COMMAND &             2,756           2,756
                   CONTROL SYS.
029               BATTLEFIELD AIRBORNE           48,478          48,478
                   CONTROL NODE (BACN).
030               MOBILITY COMMAND AND           21,186          21,186
                   CONTROL.
031               AIR FORCE PHYSICAL            178,361         178,361
                   SECURITY SYSTEM.
032               COMBAT TRAINING               233,993         261,993
                   RANGES.
                      Joint threat                              [28,000]
                      emitters.
033               MINIMUM ESSENTIAL             132,648         132,648
                   EMERGENCY COMM N.
034               WIDE AREA                      80,818          42,118
                   SURVEILLANCE (WAS).
                      Program decrease.                        [-38,700]
035               C3 COUNTERMEASURES...          25,036          25,036
036               INTEGRATED PERSONNEL           20,900               0
                   AND PAY SYSTEM.
                      Poor agile                               [-20,900]
                      implementation.
037               GCSS-AF FOS..........          11,226          11,226
038               DEFENSE ENTERPRISE              1,905           1,905
                   ACCOUNTING & MGT SYS.
039               MAINTENANCE REPAIR &            1,912           1,912
                   OVERHAUL INITIATIVE.
040               THEATER BATTLE MGT C2           6,337           6,337
                   SYSTEM.
041               AIR & SPACE                    33,243          33,243
                   OPERATIONS CENTER
                   (AOC).
                  AIR FORCE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
043               BASE INFORMATION               69,530          62,280
                   TRANSPT INFRAST
                   (BITI) WIRED.
                      Restoring                                 [-7,250]
                      acquisition
                      accountability.
044               AFNET................         147,063         147,063
045               JOINT COMMUNICATIONS            6,505           6,505
                   SUPPORT ELEMENT
                   (JCSE).
046               USCENTCOM............          20,190          20,190
047               USSTRATCOM...........          11,244          11,244
                  ORGANIZATION AND BASE
048               TACTICAL C-E                  143,757         143,757
                   EQUIPMENT.
050               RADIO EQUIPMENT......          15,402          15,402
051               CCTV/AUDIOVISUAL                3,211           3,211
                   EQUIPMENT.
052               BASE COMM                      43,123          43,123
                   INFRASTRUCTURE.
                  MODIFICATIONS
053               COMM ELECT MODS......          14,500          14,500
                  PERSONAL SAFETY &
                   RESCUE EQUIP
054               PERSONAL SAFETY AND            50,634          50,634
                   RESCUE EQUIPMENT.
                  DEPOT PLANT+MTRLS
                   HANDLING EQ
055               POWER CONDITIONING             11,000          11,000
                   EQUIPMENT.
056               MECHANIZED MATERIAL            11,901          11,901
                   HANDLING EQUIP.
                  BASE SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
057               BASE PROCURED                  23,963          23,963
                   EQUIPMENT.
058               ENGINEERING AND EOD            34,124          34,124
                   EQUIPMENT.
059               MOBILITY EQUIPMENT...          26,439          26,439
060               FUELS SUPPORT                  24,255          24,255
                   EQUIPMENT (FSE).
061               BASE MAINTENANCE AND           38,986          38,986
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.
                  SPECIAL SUPPORT
                   PROJECTS
063               DARP RC135...........          26,716          26,716
064               DCGS-AF..............         116,055         116,055
066               SPECIAL UPDATE                835,148         835,148
                   PROGRAM.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
066A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..      18,292,807      18,292,807
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
067               SPARES AND REPAIR              81,340          81,340
                   PARTS.
                       TOTAL OTHER           21,342,857      21,303,034
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-
                   WIDE
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, OSD
022               MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DPAA           1,504           1,504
045               MAJOR EQUIPMENT, OSD.          43,705          43,705
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, NSA
044               INFORMATION SYSTEMS             1,533             133
                   SECURITY PROGRAM
                   (ISSP).
                      Realignment to                            [-1,400]
                      DISA for
                      Sharkseer.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, WHS
049               MAJOR EQUIPMENT, WHS.             507             507
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DISA
008               INFORMATION SYSTEMS             3,318           4,718
                   SECURITY.
                      Realignment for                            [1,400]
                      Sharkseer.
009               TELEPORT PROGRAM.....          25,103          25,103
010               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             26,416          26,416
                   MILLION.
012               DEFENSE INFORMATION            17,574          17,574
                   SYSTEM NETWORK.
014               WHITE HOUSE                    45,079          45,079
                   COMMUNICATION AGENCY.
015               SENIOR LEADERSHIP              78,669          78,669
                   ENTERPRISE.
016               JOINT REGIONAL                 88,000          88,000
                   SECURITY STACKS
                   (JRSS).
017               JOINT SERVICE                 107,907         107,907
                   PROVIDER.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DLA
019               MAJOR EQUIPMENT......           8,122           8,122
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DSS
023               MAJOR EQUIPMENT......             496             496
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS
046               MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS.           6,905           6,905
047               MAJOR EQUIPMENT--TJS            1,458           1,458
                   CYBER.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   MISSILE DEFENSE
                   AGENCY
028               THAAD................         425,863         388,543
                      Unit cost savings                        [-37,320]
029               GROUND BASED                    9,471           9,471
                   MIDCOURSE.
031               AEGIS BMD............         600,773         565,374
                      SM-3 Block IB                            [-35,399]
                      multiyear unit
                      cost savings.
032               AEGIS BMD............          96,995          96,995
033               BMDS AN/TPY-2 RADARS.          10,046          10,046
034               ARROW 3 UPPER TIER             55,000          55,000
                   SYSTEMS.
035               SHORT RANGE BALLISTIC          50,000          50,000
                   MISSILE DEFENSE
                   (SRBMD).
036               AEGIS ASHORE PHASE             25,659          25,659
                   III.
037               IRON DOME............          95,000          95,000
038               AEGIS BMD HARDWARE            124,986         124,986
                   AND SOFTWARE.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DHRA
003               PERSONNEL                       5,030           5,030
                   ADMINISTRATION.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   DEFENSE THREAT
                   REDUCTION AGENCY
025               VEHICLES.............             211             211
026               OTHER MAJOR EQUIPMENT          11,521          11,521
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   DODEA
021               AUTOMATION/                     1,320           1,320
                   EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT
                   & LOGISTICS.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DCMA
002               MAJOR EQUIPMENT......           2,432           2,432
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   DMACT
020               MAJOR EQUIPMENT......          10,961          10,961
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
049A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..         589,366         589,366
                  AVIATION PROGRAMS
053               ROTARY WING UPGRADES          172,020         172,020
                   AND SUSTAINMENT.
054               UNMANNED ISR.........          15,208          15,208
055               NON-STANDARD AVIATION          32,310          32,310
056               U-28.................          10,898          10,898
057               MH-47 CHINOOK........         173,812         173,812
058               CV-22 MODIFICATION...          17,256          17,256
059               MQ-9 UNMANNED AERIAL            5,338           5,338
                   VEHICLE.
060               PRECISION STRIKE              232,930         232,930
                   PACKAGE.
061               AC/MC-130J...........         173,419         165,019
                      RFCM realignment                          [-8,400]
                      to RDAF FVL.
062               C-130 MODIFICATIONS..          15,582          15,582
                  SHIPBUILDING
063               UNDERWATER SYSTEMS...          58,991          58,991
                  AMMUNITION PROGRAMS
064               ORDNANCE ITEMS <$5M..         279,992         279,992
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT
                   PROGRAMS
065               INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS.         100,641         100,641
066               DISTRIBUTED COMMON             12,522          12,522
                   GROUND/SURFACE
                   SYSTEMS.
067               OTHER ITEMS <$5M.....         103,910         103,910
068               COMBATANT CRAFT                33,088          33,088
                   SYSTEMS.
069               SPECIAL PROGRAMS.....          63,467          63,467
070               TACTICAL VEHICLES....          77,832          77,832
071               WARRIOR SYSTEMS <$5M.         298,480         298,480
072               COMBAT MISSION                 19,702          19,702
                   REQUIREMENTS.
073               GLOBAL VIDEO                    4,787           4,787
                   SURVEILLANCE
                   ACTIVITIES.
074               OPERATIONAL                     8,175           8,175
                   ENHANCEMENTS
                   INTELLIGENCE.
075               OPERATIONAL                   282,532         282,532
                   ENHANCEMENTS.
                  CBDP
076               CHEMICAL BIOLOGICAL           162,406         162,406
                   SITUATIONAL
                   AWARENESS.
077               CB PROTECTION &               188,188         183,618
                   HAZARD MITIGATION.
                      Unjustified                               [-4,570]
                      growth.
                       TOTAL                  5,114,416       5,028,727
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       DEFENSE-WIDE.
 
                  JOINT URGENT
                   OPERATIONAL NEEDS
                   FUND
                  JOINT URGENT
                   OPERATIONAL NEEDS
                   FUND
001               JOINT URGENT                   99,200               0
                   OPERATIONAL NEEDS
                   FUND.
                      Program decrease.                        [-99,200]
                       TOTAL JOINT               99,200               0
                       URGENT
                       OPERATIONAL
                       NEEDS FUND.
 
                       TOTAL                132,343,701     133,100,265
                       PROCUREMENT.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4102. PROCUREMENT FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
SEC. 4102. PROCUREMENT FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In Thousands
                               of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             FY 2020        Conference
      Line                 Item              Request        Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  FIXED WING
003               MQ-1 UAV.............          54,000          54,000
                  ROTARY
015               CH-47 HELICOPTER.....          25,000          25,000
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   AIRCRAFT
021               MULTI SENSOR ABN               80,260          80,260
                   RECON (MIP).
024               GRCS SEMA MODS (MIP).             750             750
026               EMARSS SEMA MODS               22,180          22,180
                   (MIP).
027               UTILITY/CARGO                   8,362           8,362
                   AIRPLANE MODS.
029               NETWORK AND MISSION                10              10
                   PLAN.
031               DEGRADED VISUAL                49,450          49,450
                   ENVIRONMENT.
                  GROUND SUPPORT
                   AVIONICS
037               CMWS.................         130,219         130,219
038               COMMON INFRARED                 9,310           9,310
                   COUNTERMEASURES
                   (CIRCM).
                  OTHER SUPPORT
045               LAUNCHER GUIDED                 2,000           2,000
                   MISSILE: LONGBOW
                   HELLFIRE XM2.
                  TOTAL AIRCRAFT                381,541         381,541
                   PROCUREMENT, ARMY.
 
                  MISSILE PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  SURFACE-TO-AIR
                   MISSILE SYSTEM
002               M-SHORAD--PROCUREMENT         158,300         158,300
003               MSE MISSILE..........          37,938          37,938
                  AIR-TO-SURFACE
                   MISSILE SYSTEM
006               HELLFIRE SYS SUMMARY.         236,265         236,265
                  ANTI-TANK/ASSAULT
                   MISSILE SYS
008               JAVELIN (AAWS-M)                4,389           4,389
                   SYSTEM SUMMARY.
011               GUIDED MLRS ROCKET            431,596         431,596
                   (GMLRS).
014               ARMY TACTICAL MSL SYS         130,770         130,770
                   (ATACMS)--SYS SUM.
015               LETHAL MINIATURE               83,300          83,300
                   AERIAL MISSILE
                   SYSTEM (LMAMS.
                  MODIFICATIONS
019               STINGER MODS.........           7,500           7,500
022               MLRS MODS............         348,000         336,500
                      Excess to need...                        [-11,500]
                  TOTAL MISSILE               1,438,058       1,426,558
                   PROCUREMENT, ARMY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV;,
                   ARMY
                  TRACKED COMBAT
                   VEHICLES
002               ARMORED MULTI PURPOSE         221,638         221,638
                   VEHICLE (AMPV).
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   TRACKED COMBAT
                   VEHICLES
003               STRYKER (MOD)........           4,100           4,100
008               IMPROVED RECOVERY              80,146          80,146
                   VEHICLE (M88A2
                   HERCULES).
013               M1 ABRAMS TANK (MOD).          13,100          13,100
                  WEAPONS & OTHER
                   COMBAT VEHICLES
015               M240 MEDIUM MACHINE               900             900
                   GUN (7.62MM).
016               MULTI-ROLE ANTI-ARMOR           2,400           2,400
                   ANTI-PERSONNEL
                   WEAPONS.
019               MORTAR SYSTEMS.......          18,941          18,941
020               XM320 GRENADE                     526             526
                   LAUNCHER MODULE
                   (GLM).
023               CARBINE..............           1,183           1,183
025               COMMON REMOTELY                 4,182           4,182
                   OPERATED WEAPONS
                   STATION.
026               HANDGUN..............             248             248
                  MOD OF WEAPONS AND
                   OTHER COMBAT VEH
031               M2 50 CAL MACHINE GUN           6,090           6,090
                   MODS.
                  TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF          353,454         353,454
                   W&TCV;, ARMY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF
                   AMMUNITION, ARMY
                  SMALL/MEDIUM CAL
                   AMMUNITION
001               CTG, 5.56MM, ALL                  567             567
                   TYPES.
002               CTG, 7.62MM, ALL                   40              40
                   TYPES.
003               CTG, HANDGUN, ALL                  17              17
                   TYPES.
004               CTG, .50 CAL, ALL                 189             189
                   TYPES.
007               CTG, 30MM, ALL TYPES.          24,900          24,900
                  ARTILLERY AMMUNITION
015               PROJ 155MM EXTENDED            36,052          36,052
                   RANGE M982.
016               ARTILLERY                       7,271           7,271
                   PROPELLANTS, FUZES
                   AND PRIMERS, ALL.
                  ROCKETS
018               SHOULDER LAUNCHED                 176             176
                   MUNITIONS, ALL TYPES.
019               ROCKET, HYDRA 70, ALL          79,459          79,459
                   TYPES.
                  MISCELLANEOUS
027               ITEMS LESS THAN $5                 11              11
                   MILLION (AMMO).
                  TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF          148,682         148,682
                   AMMUNITION, ARMY.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  TACTICAL VEHICLES
010               FAMILY OF HEAVY                26,917          26,917
                   TACTICAL VEHICLES
                   (FHTV).
011               PLS ESP..............          16,941          16,941
012               HVY EXPANDED MOBILE            62,734          62,734
                   TACTICAL TRUCK EXT
                   SERV.
014               TACTICAL WHEELED               50,000          50,000
                   VEHICLE PROTECTION
                   KITS.
015               MODIFICATION OF IN             28,000          28,000
                   SVC EQUIP.
                  COMM--JOINT
                   COMMUNICATIONS
022               TACTICAL NETWORK               40,000          40,000
                   TECHNOLOGY MOD IN
                   SVC.
                  COMM--SATELLITE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
029               TRANSPORTABLE                   6,930           6,930
                   TACTICAL COMMAND
                   COMMUNICATIONS.
031               ASSURED POSITIONING,           11,778          11,778
                   NAVIGATION AND
                   TIMING.
032               SMART-T (SPACE)......             825             825
                  COMM--COMBAT
                   COMMUNICATIONS
040               RADIO TERMINAL SET,               350             350
                   MIDS LVT(2).
047               COTS COMMUNICATIONS            20,400          20,400
                   EQUIPMENT.
048               FAMILY OF MED COMM              1,231           1,231
                   FOR COMBAT CASUALTY
                   CARE.
                  COMM--INTELLIGENCE
                   COMM
051               CI AUTOMATION                   6,200           6,200
                   ARCHITECTURE (MIP).
                  COMM--LONG HAUL
                   COMMUNICATIONS
059               BASE SUPPORT                   20,482          20,482
                   COMMUNICATIONS.
                  COMM--BASE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
060               INFORMATION SYSTEMS..          55,800          55,800
063               INSTALLATION INFO              75,820          75,820
                   INFRASTRUCTURE MOD
                   PROGRAM.
                  ELECT EQUIP--TACT INT
                   REL ACT (TIARA)
068               DCGS-A (MIP).........          38,613          38,613
070               TROJAN (MIP).........           1,337           1,337
071               MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP             2,051           2,051
                   (INTEL SPT) (MIP).
075               BIOMETRIC TACTICAL              1,800           1,800
                   COLLECTION DEVICES
                   (MIP).
                  ELECT EQUIP--
                   ELECTRONIC WARFARE
                   (EW)
082               FAMILY OF PERSISTENT           71,493          31,493
                   SURVEILLANCE CAP.
                   (MIP).
                      Unjustified                              [-40,000]
                      growth.
083               COUNTERINTELLIGENCE/            6,917           6,917
                   SECURITY
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
                  ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL
                   SURV. (TAC SURV)
085               SENTINEL MODS........          20,000          20,000
086               NIGHT VISION DEVICES.           3,676           3,676
094               JOINT BATTLE COMMAND--         25,568          25,568
                   PLATFORM (JBC-P).
097               COMPUTER BALLISTICS:              570             570
                   LHMBC XM32.
098               MORTAR FIRE CONTROL            15,975          15,975
                   SYSTEM.
                  ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL
                   C2 SYSTEMS
103               AIR & MSL DEFENSE              14,331          14,331
                   PLANNING & CONTROL
                   SYS.
                  ELECT EQUIP--
                   AUTOMATION
112               ARMY TRAINING                   6,014           6,014
                   MODERNIZATION.
113               AUTOMATED DATA                 32,700          32,700
                   PROCESSING EQUIP.
                  CHEMICAL DEFENSIVE
                   EQUIPMENT
124               FAMILY OF NON-LETHAL           25,480          25,480
                   EQUIPMENT (FNLE).
125               BASE DEFENSE SYSTEMS           47,110          39,984
                   (BDS).
                      Unjustified                               [-7,126]
                      growth.
126               CBRN DEFENSE.........          18,711          17,461
                      Unit cost                                 [-1,250]
                      discrepancies.
                  BRIDGING EQUIPMENT
128               TACTICAL BRIDGING....           4,884           4,884
                  ENGINEER (NON-
                   CONSTRUCTION)
                   EQUIPMENT
133               GRND STANDOFF MINE              4,500           3,655
                   DETECTN SYSM
                   (GSTAMIDS).
                      Program reduction                           [-845]
135               HUSKY MOUNTED                  34,253          28,071
                   DETECTION SYSTEM
                   (HMDS).
                      Program reduction                         [-6,182]
136               ROBOTIC COMBAT                  3,300           3,300
                   SUPPORT SYSTEM
                   (RCSS).
140               RENDER SAFE SETS KITS          84,000          84,000
                   OUTFITS.
                  COMBAT SERVICE
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
143               HEATERS AND ECU'S....               8               8
145               PERSONNEL RECOVERY              5,101           5,101
                   SUPPORT SYSTEM
                   (PRSS).
146               GROUND SOLDIER SYSTEM           1,760           1,760
148               FORCE PROVIDER.......          56,400          56,400
150               CARGO AERIAL DEL &              2,040           2,040
                   PERSONNEL PARACHUTE
                   SYSTEM.
                  PETROLEUM EQUIPMENT
154               DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS,          13,986          13,986
                   PETROLEUM & WATER.
                  MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
155               COMBAT SUPPORT                  2,735           2,735
                   MEDICAL.
                  CONSTRUCTION
                   EQUIPMENT
159               SCRAPERS, EARTHMOVING           4,669           4,669
160               LOADERS..............             380             380
162               TRACTOR, FULL TRACKED           8,225           8,225
164               HIGH MOBILITY                   3,000           3,000
                   ENGINEER EXCAVATOR
                   (HMEE).
166               CONST EQUIP ESP......           3,870           3,870
167               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M             350             350
                   (CONST EQUIP).
                  GENERATORS
171               GENERATORS AND                  2,436           2,436
                   ASSOCIATED EQUIP.
                  MATERIAL HANDLING
                   EQUIPMENT
173               FAMILY OF FORKLIFTS..           5,152           5,152
                  TRAINING EQUIPMENT
175               TRAINING DEVICES,               2,106           2,106
                   NONSYSTEM.
                  TEST MEASURE AND DIG
                   EQUIPMENT (TMD)
181               INTEGRATED FAMILY OF            1,395           1,395
                   TEST EQUIPMENT
                   (IFTE).
                  OTHER SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
184               RAPID EQUIPPING                24,122          24,122
                   SOLDIER SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT.
185               PHYSICAL SECURITY              10,016          10,016
                   SYSTEMS (OPA3).
187               MODIFICATION OF IN-            33,354          33,354
                   SVC EQUIPMENT (OPA-
                   3).
189               BUILDING, PRE-FAB,             62,654          62,654
                   RELOCATABLE.
                  TOTAL OTHER                 1,131,450       1,076,047
                   PROCUREMENT, ARMY.
 
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
026               STUASL0 UAV..........           7,921           7,921
027               MQ-9A REAPER.........          77,000          77,000
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   AIRCRAFT
036               EP-3 SERIES..........           5,488           5,488
046               SPECIAL PROJECT                 3,498           3,498
                   AIRCRAFT.
051               COMMON ECM EQUIPMENT.           3,406           3,406
053               COMMON DEFENSIVE                3,274           3,274
                   WEAPON SYSTEM.
062               QRC..................          18,458          18,458
                  TOTAL AIRCRAFT                119,045         119,045
                   PROCUREMENT, NAVY.
 
                  WEAPONS PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  TACTICAL MISSILES
011               JOINT AIR GROUND               90,966          90,966
                   MISSILE (JAGM).
015               AERIAL TARGETS.......           6,500           6,500
                  TOTAL WEAPONS                  97,466          97,466
                   PROCUREMENT, NAVY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF AMMO,
                   NAVY & MC
                  NAVY AMMUNITION
001               GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS          26,978          26,978
002               JDAM.................          12,263          12,263
003               AIRBORNE ROCKETS, ALL          45,020          45,020
                   TYPES.
004               MACHINE GUN                    33,577          33,577
                   AMMUNITION.
005               PRACTICE BOMBS.......          11,903          11,903
006               CARTRIDGES & CART              15,081          15,081
                   ACTUATED DEVICES.
007               AIR EXPENDABLE                 16,911          16,911
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
011               OTHER SHIP GUN                  3,262           3,262
                   AMMUNITION.
012               SMALL ARMS & LANDING            1,010           1,010
                   PARTY AMMO.
013               PYROTECHNIC AND                   537             537
                   DEMOLITION.
                  MARINE CORPS
                   AMMUNITION
016               MORTARS..............           1,930           1,930
017               DIRECT SUPPORT                  1,172           1,172
                   MUNITIONS.
018               INFANTRY WEAPONS                2,158           2,158
                   AMMUNITION.
019               COMBAT SUPPORT                    965             965
                   MUNITIONS.
021               ARTILLERY MUNITIONS..          32,047          32,047
                  TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF          204,814         204,814
                   AMMO, NAVY & MC.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  OTHER SHIPBOARD
                   EQUIPMENT
020               UNDERWATER EOD                  5,800           5,800
                   PROGRAMS.
                  ASW ELECTRONIC
                   EQUIPMENT
042               FIXED SURVEILLANCE            310,503         310,503
                   SYSTEM.
                  SONOBUOYS
085               SONOBUOYS--ALL TYPES.           2,910           2,910
                  AIRCRAFT SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
088               AIRCRAFT SUPPORT               13,420          13,420
                   EQUIPMENT.
094               AVIATION SUPPORT                  500             500
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  OTHER ORDNANCE
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
103               EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE             15,307          15,307
                   DISPOSAL EQUIP.
                  CIVIL ENGINEERING
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
108               PASSENGER CARRYING                173             173
                   VEHICLES.
109               GENERAL PURPOSE                   408             408
                   TRUCKS.
111               FIRE FIGHTING                     785             785
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  SUPPLY SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
117               SUPPLY EQUIPMENT.....             100             100
118               FIRST DESTINATION                 510             510
                   TRANSPORTATION.
                  COMMAND SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
122               COMMAND SUPPORT                 2,800           2,800
                   EQUIPMENT.
123               MEDICAL SUPPORT                 1,794           1,794
                   EQUIPMENT.
126               OPERATING FORCES                1,090           1,090
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.
128               ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT             200             200
                   EQUIPMENT.
129               PHYSICAL SECURITY               1,300           1,300
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  TOTAL OTHER                   357,600         357,600
                   PROCUREMENT, NAVY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT, MARINE
                   CORPS
                  GUIDED MISSILES
012               GUIDED MLRS ROCKET             16,919          16,919
                   (GMLRS).
                  ENGINEER AND OTHER
                   EQUIPMENT
045               EOD SYSTEMS..........           3,670           3,670
                  TOTAL PROCUREMENT,             20,589          20,589
                   MARINE CORPS.
 
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
017               MQ-9.................         172,240         172,240
018               RQ-20B PUMA..........          12,150          12,150
                  STRATEGIC AIRCRAFT
022               LARGE AIRCRAFT                 53,335          53,335
                   INFRARED
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
067               MQ-9 UAS PAYLOADS....          19,800          19,800
                  AIRCRAFT SPARES AND
                   REPAIR PARTS
069               INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR          44,560          44,560
                   PARTS.
                  COMMON SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
072               AIRCRAFT REPLACEMENT            7,025           7,025
                   SUPPORT EQUIP.
                  TOTAL AIRCRAFT                309,110         309,110
                   PROCUREMENT, AIR
                   FORCE.
 
                  MISSILE PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  TACTICAL
004               JOINT AIR-SURFACE              20,900          20,900
                   STANDOFF MISSILE.
008               PREDATOR HELLFIRE             180,771         180,771
                   MISSILE.
                  TOTAL MISSILE                 201,671         201,671
                   PROCUREMENT, AIR
                   FORCE.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF
                   AMMUNITION, AIR
                   FORCE
                  ROCKETS
001               ROCKETS..............          84,960          84,960
                  CARTRIDGES
002               CARTRIDGES...........          52,642          52,642
                  BOMBS
004               GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS         545,309         545,309
                  FLARES
015               FLARES...............          93,272          93,272
                  FUZES
016               FUZES................         157,155         157,155
                  SMALL ARMS
017               SMALL ARMS...........           6,095           6,095
                  TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF          939,433         939,433
                   AMMUNITION, AIR
                   FORCE.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  PASSENGER CARRYING
                   VEHICLES
001               PASSENGER CARRYING              1,276           1,276
                   VEHICLES.
                  CARGO AND UTILITY
                   VEHICLES
004               CARGO AND UTILITY               9,702           9,702
                   VEHICLES.
                  SPECIAL PURPOSE
                   VEHICLES
005               JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL           40,999          40,999
                   VEHICLE.
007               SPECIAL PURPOSE                52,502          52,502
                   VEHICLES.
                  FIRE FIGHTING
                   EQUIPMENT
008               FIRE FIGHTING/CRASH            16,652          16,652
                   RESCUE VEHICLES.
                  MATERIALS HANDLING
                   EQUIPMENT
009               MATERIALS HANDLING              2,944           2,944
                   VEHICLES.
                  BASE MAINTENANCE
                   SUPPORT
010               RUNWAY SNOW REMOV AND           3,753           3,753
                   CLEANING EQU.
011               BASE MAINTENANCE               11,837          11,837
                   SUPPORT VEHICLES.
                  SPCL COMM-ELECTRONICS
                   PROJECTS
027               GENERAL INFORMATION             5,000           5,000
                   TECHNOLOGY.
031               AIR FORCE PHYSICAL            106,919         106,919
                   SECURITY SYSTEM.
                  ORGANIZATION AND BASE
048               TACTICAL C-E                      306             306
                   EQUIPMENT.
052               BASE COMM                       4,300           4,300
                   INFRASTRUCTURE.
                  PERSONAL SAFETY &
                   RESCUE EQUIP
054               PERSONAL SAFETY AND            22,200          22,200
                   RESCUE EQUIPMENT.
                  BASE SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
059               MOBILITY EQUIPMENT...          26,535          26,535
060               FUELS SUPPORT                   4,040           4,040
                   EQUIPMENT (FSE).
061               BASE MAINTENANCE AND           20,067          20,067
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
066A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..       3,209,066       3,209,066
                  TOTAL OTHER                 3,538,098       3,538,098
                   PROCUREMENT, AIR
                   FORCE.
 
                  PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-
                   WIDE
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DISA
009               TELEPORT PROGRAM.....           3,800           3,800
012               DEFENSE INFORMATION            12,000          12,000
                   SYSTEM NETWORK.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   DEFENSE THREAT
                   REDUCTION AGENCY
027               COUNTER IED &                   4,590           4,590
                   IMPROVISED THREAT
                   TECHNOLOGIES.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
049A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..          51,380          46,380
                      Program decrease.                         [-5,000]
                  AVIATION PROGRAMS
050               MANNED ISR...........           5,000           5,000
051               MC-12................           5,000           5,000
052               MH-60 BLACKHAWK......          28,100          28,100
054               UNMANNED ISR.........           8,207           8,207
056               U-28.................          31,500          31,500
057               MH-47 CHINOOK........          37,500          37,500
059               MQ-9 UNMANNED AERIAL            1,900           1,900
                   VEHICLE.
                  AMMUNITION PROGRAMS
064               ORDNANCE ITEMS <$5M..         138,252         138,252
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT
                   PROGRAMS
065               INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS.          16,500          16,500
067               OTHER ITEMS <$5M.....              28              28
070               TACTICAL VEHICLES....           2,990           2,990
071               WARRIOR SYSTEMS <$5M.          37,512          37,512
072               COMBAT MISSION                 10,000          10,000
                   REQUIREMENTS.
074               OPERATIONAL                     7,594           7,594
                   ENHANCEMENTS
                   INTELLIGENCE.
075               OPERATIONAL                    45,194          45,194
                   ENHANCEMENTS.
                  TOTAL PROCUREMENT,            447,047         442,047
                   DEFENSE-WIDE.
 
                  NATIONAL GUARD AND
                   RESERVE EQUIPMENT
                  UNDISTRIBUTED
007               UNDISTRIBUTED........                         265,000
                      Program increase.                        [265,000]
                  TOTAL NATIONAL GUARD                          265,000
                   AND RESERVE
                   EQUIPMENT.
 
                  TOTAL PROCUREMENT....       9,688,058       9,881,155
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4103. PROCUREMENT FOR EMERGENCY REQUIREMENTS.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
   SEC. 4103. PROCUREMENT FOR EMERGENCY REQUIREMENTS (In Thousands of
                                Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             FY 2020        Conference
      Line                 Item              Request        Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  COMMAND SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
122               COMMAND SUPPORT                     0         233,000
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Earthquake damage                        [233,000]
                      recovery.
                  TOTAL PROCUREMENT,                            233,000
                   NAVY.
 
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  TACTICAL FORCES
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
055               RC-135...............               0         204,448
                      Equipment                                [204,448]
                      replacement.
                  COMMON SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
072               AIRCRAFT REPLACEMENT                           46,000
                   SUPPORT EQUIP.
                      Equipment                                 [46,000]
                      replacement.
                  TOTAL AIRCRAFT                      0         250,448
                   PROCUREMENT, AIR
                   FORCE.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  PASSENGER CARRYING
                   VEHICLES
001               PASSENGER CARRYING                  0             994
                   VEHICLES.
                      Equipment                                    [994]
                      replacement.
                  CARGO AND UTILITY
                   VEHICLES
004               CARGO AND UTILITY                   0             126
                   VEHICLES.
                      Equipment                                    [126]
                      replacement.
                  SPECIAL PURPOSE
                   VEHICLES
007               SPECIAL PURPOSE                     0             306
                   VEHICLES.
                      Equipment                                    [306]
                      replacement.
                  FIRE FIGHTING
                   EQUIPMENT
009               MATERIALS HANDLING                  0             276
                   VEHICLES.
                      Equipment                                    [994]
                      replacement.
                  BASE MAINTENANCE
                   SUPPORT
011               BASE MAINTENANCE                    0           2,400
                   SUPPORT VEHICLES.
                      Equipment                                    [994]
                      replacement.
                  BASE SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
057               BASE PROCURED                       0          49,434
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Equipment                                 [49,434]
                      replacement.
                  SPECIAL SUPPORT
                   PROJECTS
063               DARP RC135...........               0          29,438
                      Equipment                                 [29,438]
                      replacement.
                  TOTAL OTHER                         0          82,974
                   PROCUREMENT, AIR
                   FORCE.
 
                  TOTAL PROCUREMENT....               0         566,422
------------------------------------------------------------------------


        TITLE XLII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

Sec. 4201. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 4202. Research, development, test, and evaluation for overseas 
          contingency operations.
Sec. 4203. Research, development, test, and evaluation for emergency 
          requirements.
SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION (In Thousands of Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                     FY 2020        Conference
  Line             Program Element                          Item                     Request        Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         ..................................  RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
                                              EVAL, ARMY
         ..................................  BASIC RESEARCH
   002   0601102A                            DEFENSE RESEARCH SCIENCES.........         297,976         307,976
         ..................................      Counter UAS University                                  [5,000]
                                                 Research.
         ..................................      Cyber basic research..........                          [5,000]
   003   0601103A                            UNIVERSITY RESEARCH INITIATIVES...          65,858          75,858
         ..................................      Program increase..............                         [10,000]
   004   0601104A                            UNIVERSITY AND INDUSTRY RESEARCH            86,164          95,164
                                              CENTERS.
         ..................................      Program increase--artificial                            [5,000]
                                                 intelligence.
         ..................................      University and industry                                 [4,000]
                                                 biotechnology research.
   005   0601121A                            CYBER COLLABORATIVE RESEARCH                 4,982           4,982
                                              ALLIANCE.
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL BASIC RESEARCH........         454,980         483,980
         ..................................
         ..................................  APPLIED RESEARCH
   010   0602141A                            LETHALITY TECHNOLOGY..............          26,961          31,961
         ..................................      Program increase--next                                  [5,000]
                                                 generation air-breathing
                                                 propulsion technology.
   011   0602142A                            ARMY APPLIED RESEARCH.............          25,319          25,319
   012   0602143A                            SOLDIER LETHALITY TECHNOLOGY......         115,274         128,274
         ..................................      Expeditionary mobile base camp                          [5,000]
                                                 technology.
         ..................................      HEROES program................                          [5,000]
         ..................................      UPL MDTF for INDOPACOM........                          [3,000]
   013   0602144A                            GROUND TECHNOLOGY.................          35,199          54,199
         ..................................      Advanced materials                                      [2,000]
                                                 manufacturing process.
         ..................................      Biopolymer structural                                   [2,000]
                                                 materials.
         ..................................      Cellulose structural materials                          [5,000]
         ..................................      High performance polymers                               [5,000]
                                                 research.
         ..................................      Manufacturing research                                  [5,000]
                                                 technology.
   014   0602145A                            NEXT GENERATION COMBAT VEHICLE             219,047         225,047
                                              TECHNOLOGY.
         ..................................      Structural thermoplastics.....                          [6,000]
   015   0602146A                            NETWORK C3I TECHNOLOGY............         114,516         117,016
         ..................................      Next generation SAR small sat.                          [2,500]
   016   0602147A                            LONG RANGE PRECISION FIRES                  74,327          86,327
                                              TECHNOLOGY.
         ..................................      Composite tube and propulsion                          [10,000]
                                                 technology.
         ..................................      Novel printed armament                                  [2,000]
                                                 components.
   017   0602148A                            FUTURE VERTICLE LIFT TECHNOLOGY...          93,601          96,601
         ..................................      Program increase..............                          [3,000]
   018   0602150A                            AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY          50,771          50,771
   020   0602213A                            C3I APPLIED CYBER.................          18,947          18,947
   038   0602785A                            MANPOWER/PERSONNEL/TRAINING                 20,873          20,873
                                              TECHNOLOGY.
   040   0602787A                            MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY................          99,155         108,955
         ..................................      Female warfighter performance                           [2,000]
                                                 research.
         ..................................      Musculoskeletal injury risk                             [4,800]
                                                 mitigation.
         ..................................      Program increase..............                          [3,000]
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL APPLIED RESEARCH......         893,990         964,290
         ..................................
         ..................................  ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
   042   0603002A                            MEDICAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY.......          42,030          42,030
   047   0603007A                            MANPOWER, PERSONNEL AND TRAINING            11,038          11,038
                                              ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY.
   050   0603117A                            ARMY ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY                    63,338          63,338
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
   051   0603118A                            SOLDIER LETHALITY ADVANCED                 118,468         128,468
                                              TECHNOLOGY.
         ..................................      Improvement of combat helmet                            [5,000]
                                                 suspension systems.
         ..................................      Thermal mitigation                                      [5,000]
                                                 technologies.
   052   0603119A                            GROUND ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY........          12,593          35,593
         ..................................      100 hour battery..............                         [10,000]
         ..................................      Ground advanced technology for                          [5,000]
                                                 cold regions.
         ..................................      Lightweight protective and                              [3,000]
                                                 hardening materials.
         ..................................      Robotic construction research.                          [5,000]
   059   0603457A                            C3I CYBER ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT....          13,769          13,769
   060   0603461A                            HIGH PERFORMANCE COMPUTING                 184,755         224,755
                                              MODERNIZATION PROGRAM.
         ..................................      Program increase..............                         [40,000]
   061   0603462A                            NEXT GENERATION COMBAT VEHICLE             160,035         174,035
                                              ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY.
         ..................................      Ground vehicle sustainment                              [4,000]
                                                 research.
         ..................................      Program increase--hydrogen                             [10,000]
                                                 fuel cells.
   062   0603463A                            NETWORK C3I ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY...         106,899         103,899
         ..................................      Underexecution................                         [-3,000]
   063   0603464A                            LONG RANGE PRECISION FIRES                 174,386         183,386
                                              ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY.
         ..................................      Hypersonics research..........                          [4,000]
         ..................................      Program increase missile                                [5,000]
                                                 demonstrations.
   064   0603465A                            FUTURE VERTICAL LIFT ADVANCED              151,640         151,640
                                              TECHNOLOGY.
   065   0603466A                            AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE ADVANCED            60,613          60,613
                                              TECHNOLOGY.
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY          1,099,564       1,192,564
                                                DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................
         ..................................  ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
                                              PROTOTYPES
   073   0603305A                            ARMY MISSLE DEFENSE SYSTEMS                 10,987          18,987
                                              INTEGRATION.
         ..................................      Conventional mission                                    [8,000]
                                                 capabilities.
   074   0603327A                            AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS             15,148          15,148
                                              ENGINEERING.
   075   0603619A                            LANDMINE WARFARE AND BARRIER--ADV           92,915          92,915
                                              DEV.
   077   0603639A                            TANK AND MEDIUM CALIBER AMMUNITION          82,146          82,146
   078   0603645A                            ARMORED SYSTEM MODERNIZATION--ADV          157,656         157,656
                                              DEV.
   079   0603747A                            SOLDIER SUPPORT AND SURVIVABILITY.           6,514           6,514
   080   0603766A                            TACTICAL ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE            34,890          34,890
                                              SYSTEM--ADV DEV.
   081   0603774A                            NIGHT VISION SYSTEMS ADVANCED              251,011         222,791
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................      IVAS insufficient                                     [-28,220]
                                                 justification.
   082   0603779A                            ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY TECHNOLOGY--          15,132          15,132
                                              DEM/VAL.
   083   0603790A                            NATO RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.....           5,406           5,406
   084   0603801A                            AVIATION--ADV DEV.................         459,290         534,890
         ..................................      Program increase: Future long-                         [75,600]
                                                 range assault aircraft.
   085   0603804A                            LOGISTICS AND ENGINEER EQUIPMENT--           6,254           6,254
                                              ADV DEV.
   086   0603807A                            MEDICAL SYSTEMS--ADV DEV..........          31,175          31,175
   087   0603827A                            SOLDIER SYSTEMS--ADVANCED                   22,113          22,113
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
   088   0604017A                            ROBOTICS DEVELOPMENT..............         115,222          88,222
         ..................................      Early to need.................                        [-27,000]
   090   0604021A                            ELECTRONIC WARFARE TECHNOLOGY               18,043          18,043
                                              MATURATION (MIP).
   091   0604100A                            ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES..........          10,023          10,023
   092   0604113A                            FUTURE TACTICAL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT           40,745          35,745
                                              SYSTEM (FTUAS).
         ..................................      Program adjustment............                         [-5,000]
   093   0604114A                            LOWER TIER AIR MISSILE DEFENSE             427,772         379,772
                                              (LTAMD) SENSOR.
         ..................................      Rapid prototyping excess                              [-48,000]
                                                 funding.
   094   0604115A                            TECHNOLOGY MATURATION INITIATIVES.         196,676         161,676
         ..................................      Insufficient schedule detail..                        [-35,000]
   095   0604117A                            MANEUVER--SHORT RANGE AIR DEFENSE           33,100          29,400
                                              (M-SHORAD).
         ..................................      Excess testing cost...........                         [-3,700]
   097   0604119A                            ARMY ADVANCED COMPONENT                    115,116         103,331
                                              DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPING.
         ..................................      Early to need.................                        [-11,785]
   099   0604121A                            SYNTHETIC TRAINING ENVIRONMENT             136,761         111,761
                                              REFINEMENT & PROTOTYPING.
         ..................................      Early to need (IVAS)..........                        [-25,000]
   100   0604182A                            HYPERSONICS.......................         228,000         389,610
         ..................................      Transfer from RDTE Defense-                            [31,000]
                                                 Wide, line 124.
         ..................................      UPL accelerate Hypersonic                             [130,610]
                                                 Weapons System.
   102   0604403A                            FUTURE INTERCEPTOR................           8,000               0
         ..................................      Early to need.................                         [-8,000]
   103   0604541A                            UNIFIED NETWORK TRANSPORT.........          39,600          29,700
         ..................................      Early to need.................                         [-9,900]
   104   0604644A                            MOBILE MEDIUM RANGE MISSILE.......          20,000          10,000
         ..................................      Program decrease..............                        [-10,000]
   106   0305251A                            CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS FORCES AND            52,102          52,102
                                              FORCE SUPPORT.
   107   1206120A                            ASSURED POSITIONING, NAVIGATION            192,562         150,062
                                              AND TIMING (PNT).
         ..................................      Project cancellation..........                        [-42,500]
   108   1206308A                            ARMY SPACE SYSTEMS INTEGRATION....         104,996         104,996
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT           2,929,355       2,920,460
                                                DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES.
         ..................................
         ..................................  SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
   109   0604201A                            AIRCRAFT AVIONICS.................          29,164          29,164
   110   0604270A                            ELECTRONIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT....          70,539          70,539
   113   0604601A                            INFANTRY SUPPORT WEAPONS..........         106,121         106,121
   114   0604604A                            MEDIUM TACTICAL VEHICLES..........           2,152           2,152
   115   0604611A                            JAVELIN...........................          17,897          16,055
         ..................................      Qualification testing early to                         [-1,842]
                                                 need.
   116   0604622A                            FAMILY OF HEAVY TACTICAL VEHICLES.          16,745          16,745
   117   0604633A                            AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL...............           6,989           6,989
   118   0604642A                            LIGHT TACTICAL WHEELED VEHICLES...          10,465           2,965
         ..................................      Program reduction.............                         [-7,500]
   119   0604645A                            ARMORED SYSTEMS MODERNIZATION              310,152         293,964
                                              (ASM)--ENG DEV.
         ..................................      Program delay.................                        [-16,188]
   120   0604710A                            NIGHT VISION SYSTEMS--ENG DEV.....         181,732         166,732
         ..................................      Insufficient justification                            [-15,000]
                                                 (IVAS).
   121   0604713A                            COMBAT FEEDING, CLOTHING, AND                2,393           2,393
                                              EQUIPMENT.
   122   0604715A                            NON-SYSTEM TRAINING DEVICES--ENG            27,412          27,412
                                              DEV.
   123   0604741A                            AIR DEFENSE COMMAND, CONTROL AND            43,502          43,502
                                              INTELLIGENCE--ENG DEV.
   124   0604742A                            CONSTRUCTIVE SIMULATION SYSTEMS             11,636          11,636
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
   125   0604746A                            AUTOMATIC TEST EQUIPMENT                    10,915          10,915
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
   126   0604760A                            DISTRIBUTIVE INTERACTIVE                     7,801           7,801
                                              SIMULATIONS (DIS)--ENG DEV.
   127   0604768A                            BRILLIANT ANTI-ARMOR SUBMUNITION            25,000          20,000
                                              (BAT).
         ..................................      PFAL excess...................                         [-5,000]
   128   0604780A                            COMBINED ARMS TACTICAL TRAINER               9,241           9,241
                                              (CATT) CORE.
   129   0604798A                            BRIGADE ANALYSIS, INTEGRATION AND           42,634          38,303
                                              EVALUATION.
         ..................................      RCO support excess............                         [-4,331]
   130   0604802A                            WEAPONS AND MUNITIONS--ENG DEV....         181,023         181,023
   131   0604804A                            LOGISTICS AND ENGINEER EQUIPMENT--         103,226         103,226
                                              ENG DEV.
   132   0604805A                            COMMAND, CONTROL, COMMUNICATIONS            12,595          12,595
                                              SYSTEMS--ENG DEV.
   133   0604807A                            MEDICAL MATERIEL/MEDICAL                    48,264          48,264
                                              BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE EQUIPMENT--ENG
                                              DEV.
   134   0604808A                            LANDMINE WARFARE/BARRIER--ENG DEV.          39,208          39,208
   135   0604818A                            ARMY TACTICAL COMMAND & CONTROL            140,637         138,137
                                              HARDWARE & SOFTWARE.
         ..................................      CPI2 testing previously funded                         [-2,500]
   136   0604820A                            RADAR DEVELOPMENT.................         105,243         105,243
   137   0604822A                            GENERAL FUND ENTERPRISE BUSINESS            46,683          46,683
                                              SYSTEM (GFEBS).
   138   0604823A                            FIREFINDER........................          17,294          17,294
   139   0604827A                            SOLDIER SYSTEMS--WARRIOR DEM/VAL..           5,803           5,803
   140   0604852A                            SUITE OF SURVIVABILITY ENHANCEMENT          98,698         118,698
                                              SYSTEMS--EMD.
         ..................................      Program increase for vehicle                           [30,000]
                                                 active protection system
                                                 evaluation.
         ..................................      Program reduction.............                        [-10,000]
   141   0604854A                            ARTILLERY SYSTEMS--EMD............          15,832          15,832
   142   0605013A                            INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT         126,537          71,537
         ..................................      Historical underexecution.....                        [-10,000]
         ..................................      Program decrease..............                        [-45,000]
   143   0605018A                            INTEGRATED PERSONNEL AND PAY               142,773          92,073
                                              SYSTEM-ARMY (IPPS-A).
         ..................................      Poor business process                                 [-50,700]
                                                 reengineering.
   144   0605028A                            ARMORED MULTI-PURPOSE VEHICLE               96,730          92,130
                                              (AMPV).
         ..................................      Program reduction.............                         [-4,600]
   145   0605029A                            INTEGRATED GROUND SECURITY                   6,699           6,699
                                              SURVEILLANCE RESPONSE CAPABILITY
                                              (IGSSR-C).
   146   0605030A                            JOINT TACTICAL NETWORK CENTER               15,882          15,882
                                              (JTNC).
   147   0605031A                            JOINT TACTICAL NETWORK (JTN)......          40,808          40,808
   149   0605033A                            GROUND-BASED OPERATIONAL                     3,847           3,847
                                              SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM--
                                              EXPEDITIONARY (GBOSS-E).
   150   0605034A                            TACTICAL SECURITY SYSTEM (TSS)....           6,928           6,928
   151   0605035A                            COMMON INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES             34,488          34,488
                                              (CIRCM).
   152   0605036A                            COMBATING WEAPONS OF MASS                   10,000          10,000
                                              DESTRUCTION (CWMD).
   154   0605038A                            NUCLEAR BIOLOGICAL CHEMICAL                  6,054           6,054
                                              RECONNAISSANCE VEHICLE (NBCRV)
                                              SENSOR SUITE.
   155   0605041A                            DEFENSIVE CYBER TOOL DEVELOPMENT..          62,262          45,662
         ..................................      Contract delays...............                        [-10,000]
         ..................................      Excess growth.................                         [-6,600]
   156   0605042A                            TACTICAL NETWORK RADIO SYSTEMS              35,654          29,254
                                              (LOW-TIER).
         ..................................      Excess growth.................                         [-6,400]
   157   0605047A                            CONTRACT WRITING SYSTEM...........          19,682          19,682
   158   0605049A                            MISSILE WARNING SYSTEM                       1,539           1,539
                                              MODERNIZATION (MWSM).
   159   0605051A                            AIRCRAFT SURVIVABILITY DEVELOPMENT          64,557          64,557
   160   0605052A                            INDIRECT FIRE PROTECTION                   243,228         236,428
                                              CAPABILITY INC 2--BLOCK 1.
         ..................................      EMAM development ahead of need                         [-6,800]
   161   0605053A                            GROUND ROBOTICS...................          41,308          28,508
         ..................................      Excess to requirement.........                        [-12,800]
   162   0605054A                            EMERGING TECHNOLOGY INITIATIVES...          45,896          31,616
         ..................................      Testing and evaluation excess                          [-4,280]
                                                 growth.
         ..................................      Unjustified request...........                        [-10,000]
   163   0605203A                            ARMY SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &                  164,883         164,883
                                              DEMONSTRATION.
   165   0605450A                            JOINT AIR-TO-GROUND MISSILE (JAGM)           9,500           9,500
   166   0605457A                            ARMY INTEGRATED AIR AND MISSILE            208,938         193,938
                                              DEFENSE (AIAMD).
         ..................................      Testing and evaluation excess                         [-15,000]
                                                 growth.
   167   0605625A                            MANNED GROUND VEHICLE.............         378,400         228,400
         ..................................      Program decrease..............                       [-150,000]
   168   0605766A                            NATIONAL CAPABILITIES INTEGRATION            7,835           7,835
                                              (MIP).
   169   0605812A                            JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE                 2,732           7,232
                                              (JLTV) ENGINEERING AND
                                              MANUFACTURING DEVELOPMENT PH.
         ..................................      Army requested realignment                              [4,500]
                                                 from OPA 7.
   170   0605830A                            AVIATION GROUND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.           1,664           1,664
   172   0303032A                            TROJAN--RH12......................           3,936           3,936
   174   0304270A                            ELECTRONIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT....          19,675          19,675
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &         3,549,431       3,189,390
                                                DEMONSTRATION.
         ..................................
         ..................................  RDT&E; MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
   176   0604256A                            THREAT SIMULATOR DEVELOPMENT......          14,117          16,117
         ..................................      Cybersecurity threat                                    [2,000]
                                                 simulation.
   177   0604258A                            TARGET SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT........           8,327           8,327
   178   0604759A                            MAJOR T&E; INVESTMENT..............         136,565         136,565
   179   0605103A                            RAND ARROYO CENTER................          13,113          13,113
   180   0605301A                            ARMY KWAJALEIN ATOLL..............         238,691         238,691
   181   0605326A                            CONCEPTS EXPERIMENTATION PROGRAM..          42,922          36,922
         ..................................      Program reduction.............                         [-6,000]
   183   0605601A                            ARMY TEST RANGES AND FACILITIES...         334,468         334,468
   184   0605602A                            ARMY TECHNICAL TEST                         46,974          51,974
                                              INSTRUMENTATION AND TARGETS.
         ..................................      Program increase--space and                             [5,000]
                                                 missile cybersecurity.
   185   0605604A                            SURVIVABILITY/LETHALITY ANALYSIS..          35,075          35,075
   186   0605606A                            AIRCRAFT CERTIFICATION............           3,461           3,461
   187   0605702A                            METEOROLOGICAL SUPPORT TO RDT&E;              6,233           6,233
                                              ACTIVITIES.
   188   0605706A                            MATERIEL SYSTEMS ANALYSIS.........          21,342          21,342
   189   0605709A                            EXPLOITATION OF FOREIGN ITEMS.....          11,168          11,168
   190   0605712A                            SUPPORT OF OPERATIONAL TESTING....          52,723          52,723
   191   0605716A                            ARMY EVALUATION CENTER............          60,815          60,815
   192   0605718A                            ARMY MODELING & SIM X-CMD                    2,527           2,527
                                              COLLABORATION & INTEG.
   193   0605801A                            PROGRAMWIDE ACTIVITIES............          58,175          58,175
   194   0605803A                            TECHNICAL INFORMATION ACTIVITIES..          25,060          25,060
   195   0605805A                            MUNITIONS STANDARDIZATION,                  44,458          44,458
                                              EFFECTIVENESS AND SAFETY.
   196   0605857A                            ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY TECHNOLOGY             4,681           4,681
                                              MGMT SUPPORT.
   197   0605898A                            ARMY DIRECT REPORT HEADQUARTERS--           53,820          53,820
                                              R&D; - MHA.
   198   0606001A                            MILITARY GROUND-BASED CREW                   4,291           4,291
                                              TECHNOLOGY.
   199   0606002A                            RONALD REAGAN BALLISTIC MISSILE             62,069          62,069
                                              DEFENSE TEST SITE.
   200   0606003A                            COUNTERINTEL AND HUMAN INTEL                 1,050           1,050
                                              MODERNIZATION.
   201   0606942A                            ASSESSMENTS AND EVALUATIONS CYBER            4,500           4,500
                                              VULNERABILITIES.
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL RDT&E; MANAGEMENT             1,286,625       1,287,625
                                                SUPPORT.
         ..................................
         ..................................  OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
         ..................................  UNDISTRIBUTED
   204   0603778A                            MLRS PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM..          22,877          19,877
         ..................................      HIMARS excess growth..........                         [-3,000]
   206   0605024A                            ANTI-TAMPER TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT....           8,491           8,491
   207   0607131A                            WEAPONS AND MUNITIONS PRODUCT               15,645          15,645
                                              IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMS.
   209   0607134A                            LONG RANGE PRECISION FIRES (LRPF).         164,182         164,182
   211   0607136A                            BLACKHAWK PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT               13,039          13,039
                                              PROGRAM.
   212   0607137A                            CHINOOK PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT                174,371         168,371
                                              PROGRAM.
         ..................................      Program reduction.............                         [-6,000]
   213   0607138A                            FIXED WING PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT               4,545               0
                                              PROGRAM.
         ..................................      Program reduction.............                         [-4,545]
   214   0607139A                            IMPROVED TURBINE ENGINE PROGRAM...         206,434         206,434
   216   0607142A                            AVIATION ROCKET SYSTEM PRODUCT              24,221          21,130
                                              IMPROVEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................      Integrated munitions launcher                          [-3,091]
                                                 early to need.
   217   0607143A                            UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEM UNIVERSAL          32,016          25,516
                                              PRODUCTS.
         ..................................      Program reduction.............                         [-6,500]
   218   0607145A                            APACHE FUTURE DEVELOPMENT.........           5,448             448
         ..................................      Unjustified request...........                         [-5,000]
   219   0607312A                            ARMY OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS                    49,526          49,526
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
   220   0607665A                            FAMILY OF BIOMETRICS..............           1,702           1,702
   221   0607865A                            PATRIOT PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT.......          96,430          63,630
         ..................................      Excess growth.................                        [-32,800]
   222   0203728A                            JOINT AUTOMATED DEEP OPERATION              47,398          47,398
                                              COORDINATION SYSTEM (JADOCS).
   223   0203735A                            COMBAT VEHICLE IMPROVEMENT                 334,463         290,545
                                              PROGRAMS.
         ..................................      Early to need.................                        [-41,918]
         ..................................      Program support excess growth.                         [-2,000]
   225   0203743A                            155MM SELF-PROPELLED HOWITZER              214,246         192,746
                                              IMPROVEMENTS.
         ..................................      Program reduction.............                        [-21,500]
   226   0203744A                            AIRCRAFT MODIFICATIONS/PRODUCT              16,486          13,778
                                              IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMS.
         ..................................      Excess to need................                         [-2,708]
   227   0203752A                            AIRCRAFT ENGINE COMPONENT                      144             144
                                              IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.
   228   0203758A                            DIGITIZATION......................           5,270           5,270
   229   0203801A                            MISSILE/AIR DEFENSE PRODUCT                  1,287           1,287
                                              IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.
   234   0205412A                            ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY TECHNOLOGY--             732             732
                                              OPERATIONAL SYSTEM DEV.
   235   0205456A                            LOWER TIER AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE         107,746          99,746
                                              (AMD) SYSTEM.
         ..................................      Testing excess to need........                         [-8,000]
   236   0205778A                            GUIDED MULTIPLE-LAUNCH ROCKET              138,594         128,594
                                              SYSTEM (GMLRS).
         ..................................      Testing excess to need........                        [-10,000]
   238   0303028A                            SECURITY AND INTELLIGENCE                   13,845          13,845
                                              ACTIVITIES.
   239   0303140A                            INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY                29,185          29,185
                                              PROGRAM.
   240   0303141A                            GLOBAL COMBAT SUPPORT SYSTEM......          68,976          48,376
         ..................................      Program decrease..............                        [-20,600]
   241   0303150A                            WWMCCS/GLOBAL COMMAND AND CONTROL            2,073           2,073
                                              SYSTEM.
   245   0305179A                            INTEGRATED BROADCAST SERVICE (IBS)             459             459
   246   0305204A                            TACTICAL UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLES.           5,097           5,097
   247   0305206A                            AIRBORNE RECONNAISSANCE SYSTEMS...          11,177          11,177
   248   0305208A                            DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND/SURFACE           38,121          38,121
                                              SYSTEMS.
   250   0305232A                            RQ-11 UAV.........................           3,218           3,218
   251   0305233A                            RQ-7 UAV..........................           7,817           7,817
   252   0307665A                            BIOMETRICS ENABLED INTELLIGENCE...           2,000           2,000
   253   0708045A                            END ITEM INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS            59,848          67,848
                                              ACTIVITIES.
         ..................................      Nanoscale materials                                     [3,000]
                                                 manufacturing.
         ..................................      Program increase--additive                              [5,000]
                                                 manufacturing technology
                                                 insertion.
   254   1203142A                            SATCOM GROUND ENVIRONMENT (SPACE).          34,169          34,169
   255   1208053A                            JOINT TACTICAL GROUND SYSTEM......          10,275          10,275
  255A   9999999999                          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...............           7,273           7,273
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS          1,978,826       1,819,164
                                                DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED.........                        -159,662
         ..................................
         ..................................       TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT,       12,192,771      11,857,473
                                                  TEST & EVAL, ARMY.
         ..................................
         ..................................  RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
                                              EVAL, NAVY
         ..................................  BASIC RESEARCH
   001   0601103N                            UNIVERSITY RESEARCH INITIATIVES...         116,850         146,850
         ..................................      Advanced radar research.......                          [5,000]
         ..................................      Cyber basic research..........                         [10,000]
         ..................................      Defense University research                             [5,000]
                                                 initiatives.
         ..................................      Program increase..............                         [10,000]
   002   0601152N                            IN-HOUSE LABORATORY INDEPENDENT             19,121          19,121
                                              RESEARCH.
   003   0601153N                            DEFENSE RESEARCH SCIENCES.........         470,007         470,007
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL BASIC RESEARCH........         605,978         635,978
         ..................................
         ..................................  APPLIED RESEARCH
   004   0602114N                            POWER PROJECTION APPLIED RESEARCH.          18,546          25,546
         ..................................      Hypersonic testing facilities.                          [7,000]
   005   0602123N                            FORCE PROTECTION APPLIED RESEARCH.         119,517         166,017
         ..................................      Carbon capture................                          [8,000]
         ..................................      Electric propulsion research..                          [2,500]
         ..................................      Energy resilience.............                          [5,000]
         ..................................      Energy resilience research....                          [3,000]
         ..................................      Hybrid composite struct. res.                           [5,000]
                                                 enhanced mobility.
         ..................................      Navy power and energy systems                           [5,000]
                                                 technology.
         ..................................      Program increase..............                         [10,000]
         ..................................      Test bed for autonomous ship                            [8,000]
                                                 systems.
   006   0602131M                            MARINE CORPS LANDING FORCE                  56,604          61,604
                                              TECHNOLOGY.
         ..................................      Interdisciplinary                                       [5,000]
                                                 expeditionary cybersecurity
                                                 research.
   007   0602235N                            COMMON PICTURE APPLIED RESEARCH...          49,297          44,297
         ..................................      Coordinate space activities...                         [-5,000]
   008   0602236N                            WARFIGHTER SUSTAINMENT APPLIED              63,825          63,825
                                              RESEARCH.
   009   0602271N                            ELECTROMAGNETIC SYSTEMS APPLIED             83,497          83,497
                                              RESEARCH.
   010   0602435N                            OCEAN WARFIGHTING ENVIRONMENT               63,894          63,894
                                              APPLIED RESEARCH.
   011   0602651M                            JOINT NON-LETHAL WEAPONS APPLIED             6,346           6,346
                                              RESEARCH.
   012   0602747N                            UNDERSEA WARFARE APPLIED RESEARCH.          57,075          74,075
         ..................................      Academic partnerships for                              [10,000]
                                                 undersea vehicle research.
         ..................................      Resident autonomous undersea                            [7,000]
                                                 robotics.
   013   0602750N                            FUTURE NAVAL CAPABILITIES APPLIED          154,755         154,755
                                              RESEARCH.
   014   0602782N                            MINE AND EXPEDITIONARY WARFARE              36,074          36,074
                                              APPLIED RESEARCH.
   015   0602792N                            INNOVATIVE NAVAL PROTOTYPES (INP)          153,062         153,062
                                              APPLIED RESEARCH.
   016   0602861N                            SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT--         73,961          73,961
                                              ONR FIELD ACITIVITIES.
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL APPLIED RESEARCH......         936,453       1,006,953
         ..................................
         ..................................  ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
   017   0603123N                            FORCE PROTECTION ADVANCED                   35,286          35,286
                                              TECHNOLOGY.
   018   0603271N                            ELECTROMAGNETIC SYSTEMS ADVANCED             9,499           9,499
                                              TECHNOLOGY.
   019   0603640M                            USMC ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY                   172,847         177,847
                                              DEMONSTRATION (ATD).
         ..................................      Program increase--modular                               [5,000]
                                                 advanced armed robotic system.
   020   0603651M                            JOINT NON-LETHAL WEAPONS                    13,307          13,307
                                              TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT.
   021   0603673N                            FUTURE NAVAL CAPABILITIES ADVANCED         231,907         231,907
                                              TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT.
   022   0603680N                            MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM..          60,138          65,138
         ..................................      Program increase..............                          [5,000]
   023   0603729N                            WARFIGHTER PROTECTION ADVANCED               4,849           4,849
                                              TECHNOLOGY.
   025   0603758N                            NAVY WARFIGHTING EXPERIMENTS AND            67,739          67,739
                                              DEMONSTRATIONS.
   026   0603782N                            MINE AND EXPEDITIONARY WARFARE              13,335          13,335
                                              ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY.
   027   0603801N                            INNOVATIVE NAVAL PROTOTYPES (INP)          133,303         150,330
                                              ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................      Electromagnetic railgun.......                         [10,000]
         ..................................      Funds excess to requirements..                         [-7,973]
         ..................................      Program increase..............                         [15,000]
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY            742,210         769,237
                                                DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................
         ..................................  ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
                                              PROTOTYPES
   028   0603207N                            AIR/OCEAN TACTICAL APPLICATIONS...          32,643          38,643
         ..................................      Program increase for 1 REMUS                            [6,000]
                                                 600 vehicle.
   029   0603216N                            AVIATION SURVIVABILITY............          11,919          11,919
   030   0603251N                            AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS..................           1,473           1,473
   031   0603254N                            ASW SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT...........           7,172           7,172
   032   0603261N                            TACTICAL AIRBORNE RECONNAISSANCE..           3,419           3,419
   033   0603382N                            ADVANCED COMBAT SYSTEMS TECHNOLOGY          64,694          64,694
   034   0603502N                            SURFACE AND SHALLOW WATER MINE             507,000         310,500
                                              COUNTERMEASURES.
         ..................................      Reduce one LUSV...............                        [-86,500]
         ..................................      VLS concept design and LLTM                          [-110,000]
                                                 early to need.
   035   0603506N                            SURFACE SHIP TORPEDO DEFENSE......          15,800           7,242
         ..................................      Excess sundown costs..........                         [-8,558]
   036   0603512N                            CARRIER SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT.......           4,997           4,997
   037   0603525N                            PILOT FISH........................         291,148         186,328
         ..................................      Program adjustment............                       [-104,820]
   038   0603527N                            RETRACT LARCH.....................          11,980          11,980
   039   0603536N                            RETRACT JUNIPER...................         129,163         129,163
   040   0603542N                            RADIOLOGICAL CONTROL..............             689             689
   041   0603553N                            SURFACE ASW.......................           1,137           1,137
   042   0603561N                            ADVANCED SUBMARINE SYSTEM                  148,756         120,046
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................      Program decrease..............                        [-19,000]
         ..................................      Project 9710: Unjustified new                          [-9,710]
                                                 start.
   043   0603562N                            SUBMARINE TACTICAL WARFARE SYSTEMS          11,192          11,192
   044   0603563N                            SHIP CONCEPT ADVANCED DESIGN......          81,846          57,846
         ..................................      Future surface combatant                              [-24,000]
                                                 concept development.
   045   0603564N                            SHIP PRELIMINARY DESIGN &                   69,084          22,584
                                              FEASIBILITY STUDIES.
         ..................................      Early to need.................                        [-46,500]
   046   0603570N                            ADVANCED NUCLEAR POWER SYSTEMS....         181,652         181,652
   047   0603573N                            ADVANCED SURFACE MACHINERY SYSTEMS          25,408         155,408
         ..................................      Program increase..............                          [5,000]
         ..................................      Surface combatant component-                          [125,000]
                                                 level prototyping.
   048   0603576N                            CHALK EAGLE.......................          64,877          64,877
   049   0603581N                            LITTORAL COMBAT SHIP (LCS)........           9,934           9,934
   050   0603582N                            COMBAT SYSTEM INTEGRATION.........          17,251          17,251
   051   0603595N                            OHIO REPLACEMENT..................         419,051         434,051
         ..................................      Accelerate advanced propulsor                          [15,000]
                                                 development.
   052   0603596N                            LCS MISSION MODULES...............         108,505         105,595
         ..................................      Available prior year funds due                         [-2,910]
                                                 to SUW MP testing delay.
   053   0603597N                            AUTOMATED TEST AND ANALYSIS.......           7,653           7,653
   054   0603599N                            FRIGATE DEVELOPMENT...............          59,007          59,007
   055   0603609N                            CONVENTIONAL MUNITIONS............           9,988           9,988
   056   0603635M                            MARINE CORPS GROUND COMBAT/SUPPORT          86,464          16,477
                                              SYSTEM.
         ..................................      Insufficient justification and                        [-69,987]
                                                 contract delay.
   057   0603654N                            JOINT SERVICE EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE            33,478          33,478
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
   058   0603713N                            OCEAN ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY                 5,619           5,619
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
   059   0603721N                            ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION..........          20,564          20,564
   060   0603724N                            NAVY ENERGY PROGRAM...............          26,514          49,514
         ..................................      Battery development and safety                         [13,000]
                                                 enterprise.
         ..................................      Marine energy systems for                              [10,000]
                                                 sensors and microgrids.
   061   0603725N                            FACILITIES IMPROVEMENT............           3,440           3,440
   062   0603734N                            CHALK CORAL.......................         346,800         310,400
         ..................................      Insufficient budget                                   [-36,400]
                                                 justification.
   063   0603739N                            NAVY LOGISTIC PRODUCTIVITY........           3,857           3,857
   064   0603746N                            RETRACT MAPLE.....................         258,519         258,519
   065   0603748N                            LINK PLUMERIA.....................         403,909         396,509
         ..................................      Insufficient budget                                    [-7,400]
                                                 justification.
   066   0603751N                            RETRACT ELM.......................          63,434          63,434
   067   0603764N                            LINK EVERGREEN....................         184,110         184,110
   068   0603790N                            NATO RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.....           7,697           7,697
   069   0603795N                            LAND ATTACK TECHNOLOGY............           9,086           9,086
   070   0603851M                            JOINT NON-LETHAL WEAPONS TESTING..          28,466          28,466
   071   0603860N                            JOINT PRECISION APPROACH AND                51,341          51,341
                                              LANDING SYSTEMS--DEM/VAL.
   072   0603925N                            DIRECTED ENERGY AND ELECTRIC               118,169         118,169
                                              WEAPON SYSTEMS.
   073   0604014N                            F/A -18 INFRARED SEARCH AND TRACK          113,456         112,456
                                              (IRST).
         ..................................      Program delay.................                         [-1,000]
   074   0604027N                            DIGITAL WARFARE OFFICE............          50,120          25,120
         ..................................      Artificial intelligence                               [-10,000]
                                                 development operations
                                                 unjustified growth.
         ..................................      Program decrease..............                        [-15,000]
   075   0604028N                            SMALL AND MEDIUM UNMANNED UNDERSEA          32,527          32,527
                                              VEHICLES.
   076   0604029N                            UNMANNED UNDERSEA VEHICLE CORE              54,376          54,376
                                              TECHNOLOGIES.
   077   0604030N                            RAPID PROTOTYPING, EXPERIMENTATION          36,197          36,197
                                              AND DEMONSTRATION..
   078   0604031N                            LARGE UNMANNED UNDERSEA VEHICLES..          68,310          68,310
   079   0604112N                            GERALD R. FORD CLASS NUCLEAR               121,310         112,310
                                              AIRCRAFT CARRIER (CVN 78--80).
         ..................................      Integrated digital                                     [-9,000]
                                                 shipbuilding insufficient
                                                 budget justification.
   080   0604126N                            LITTORAL AIRBORNE MCM.............          17,248          17,248
   081   0604127N                            SURFACE MINE COUNTERMEASURES......          18,735          18,735
   082   0604272N                            TACTICAL AIR DIRECTIONAL INFRARED           68,346          58,449
                                              COUNTERMEASURES (TADIRCM).
         ..................................      Excess to need................                         [-9,897]
   084   0604289M                            NEXT GENERATION LOGISTICS.........           4,420          13,420
         ..................................      Additive manufacturing                                  [9,000]
                                                 logistics software pilot.
   085   0604320M                            RAPID TECHNOLOGY CAPABILITY                  4,558           4,558
                                              PROTOTYPE.
   086   0604454N                            LX (R)............................          12,500          12,500
   087   0604536N                            ADVANCED UNDERSEA PROTOTYPING.....         181,967         181,967
   088   0604636N                            COUNTER UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS            5,500           5,500
                                              (C-UAS).
   089   0604659N                            PRECISION STRIKE WEAPONS                   718,148         688,148
                                              DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.
         ..................................      Excess growth.................                        [-30,000]
   090   0604707N                            SPACE AND ELECTRONIC WARFARE (SEW)           5,263           5,263
                                              ARCHITECTURE/ENGINEERING SUPPORT.
   091   0604786N                            OFFENSIVE ANTI-SURFACE WARFARE              65,419          65,419
                                              WEAPON DEVELOPMENT.
   092   0303354N                            ASW SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT--MIP......           9,991           9,991
   093   0304240M                            ADVANCED TACTICAL UNMANNED                  21,157          39,657
                                              AIRCRAFT SYSTEM.
         ..................................      KMAX Large Unmanned Logistics                          [18,500]
                                                 System USMC unfunded priority.
   095   0304270N                            ELECTRONIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT--               609             609
                                              MIP.
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT           5,559,062       5,159,880
                                                DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES.
         ..................................
         ..................................  SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
   096   0603208N                            TRAINING SYSTEM AIRCRAFT..........          15,514          15,514
   097   0604212N                            OTHER HELO DEVELOPMENT............          28,835          28,835
   098   0604214M                            AV-8B AIRCRAFT--ENG DEV...........          27,441          27,441
   100   0604215N                            STANDARDS DEVELOPMENT.............           3,642           3,642
   101   0604216N                            MULTI-MISSION HELICOPTER UPGRADE            19,196          19,196
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
   104   0604230N                            WARFARE SUPPORT SYSTEM............           8,601           8,601
   105   0604231N                            TACTICAL COMMAND SYSTEM...........          77,232          77,232
   106   0604234N                            ADVANCED HAWKEYE..................         232,752         232,752
   107   0604245M                            H-1 UPGRADES......................          65,359          65,359
   109   0604261N                            ACOUSTIC SEARCH SENSORS...........          47,013          47,013
   110   0604262N                            V-22A.............................         185,105         190,105
         ..................................      Increase reliability and                                [5,000]
                                                 reduce vibrations of V-22
                                                 nacelles.
   111   0604264N                            AIR CREW SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT......          21,172          21,172
   112   0604269N                            EA-18.............................         143,585         133,585
         ..................................      Unjustified cost growth.......                        [-10,000]
   113   0604270N                            ELECTRONIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT....         116,811         109,651
         ..................................      Unjustified request...........                         [-7,160]
   114   0604273M                            EXECUTIVE HELO DEVELOPMENT........         187,436         187,436
   116   0604274N                            NEXT GENERATION JAMMER (NGJ)......         524,261         448,261
         ..................................      Underexecution................                        [-76,000]
   117   0604280N                            JOINT TACTICAL RADIO SYSTEM--NAVY          192,345         190,845
                                              (JTRS-NAVY).
         ..................................      Early to need.................                         [-1,500]
   118   0604282N                            NEXT GENERATION JAMMER (NGJ)               111,068          90,922
                                              INCREMENT II.
         ..................................      Program reduction.............                        [-20,146]
   119   0604307N                            SURFACE COMBATANT COMBAT SYSTEM            415,625         413,684
                                              ENGINEERING.
         ..................................      Aegis development support                              [-1,941]
                                                 studies and analysis early to
                                                 need.
   120   0604311N                            LPD-17 CLASS SYSTEMS INTEGRATION..             640             640
   121   0604329N                            SMALL DIAMETER BOMB (SDB).........          50,096          50,096
   122   0604366N                            STANDARD MISSILE IMPROVEMENTS.....         232,391         232,391
   123   0604373N                            AIRBORNE MCM......................          10,916          10,916
   124   0604378N                            NAVAL INTEGRATED FIRE CONTROL--             33,379          33,379
                                              COUNTER AIR SYSTEMS ENGINEERING.
   125   0604501N                            ADVANCED ABOVE WATER SENSORS......          34,554          34,554
   126   0604503N                            SSN-688 AND TRIDENT MODERNIZATION.          84,663          84,663
   127   0604504N                            AIR CONTROL.......................          44,923          44,923
   128   0604512N                            SHIPBOARD AVIATION SYSTEMS........          10,632          10,632
   129   0604518N                            COMBAT INFORMATION CENTER                   16,094          16,094
                                              CONVERSION.
   130   0604522N                            AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE RADAR               55,349          52,349
                                              (AMDR) SYSTEM.
         ..................................      Engineering changes testing                            [-3,000]
                                                 and evaluation early to need.
   131   0604530N                            ADVANCED ARRESTING GEAR (AAG).....         123,490         123,490
   132   0604558N                            NEW DESIGN SSN....................         121,010         221,010
         ..................................      Accelerate capability                                 [100,000]
                                                 development.
   133   0604562N                            SUBMARINE TACTICAL WARFARE SYSTEM.          62,426          62,426
   134   0604567N                            SHIP CONTRACT DESIGN/ LIVE FIRE             46,809          46,809
                                              T&E.;
   135   0604574N                            NAVY TACTICAL COMPUTER RESOURCES..           3,692           3,692
   137   0604601N                            MINE DEVELOPMENT..................          28,964          28,964
   138   0604610N                            LIGHTWEIGHT TORPEDO DEVELOPMENT...         148,349         115,541
         ..................................      Excess to need................                        [-32,808]
   139   0604654N                            JOINT SERVICE EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE             8,237           8,237
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
   140   0604657M                            USMC GROUND COMBAT/SUPPORTING ARMS          22,000          22,000
                                              SYSTEMS--ENG DEV.
   141   0604703N                            PERSONNEL, TRAINING, SIMULATION,             5,500           5,500
                                              AND HUMAN FACTORS.
   142   0604727N                            JOINT STANDOFF WEAPON SYSTEMS.....          18,725          16,225
         ..................................      Excess to need................                         [-2,500]
   143   0604755N                            SHIP SELF DEFENSE (DETECT &                192,603         180,085
                                              CONTROL).
         ..................................      Project 2178 prior year                               [-12,518]
                                                 carryover.
   144   0604756N                            SHIP SELF DEFENSE (ENGAGE: HARD            137,268         121,630
                                              KILL).
         ..................................      Project 2070 excess test                              [-15,638]
                                                 assets.
   145   0604757N                            SHIP SELF DEFENSE (ENGAGE: SOFT             97,363          97,363
                                              KILL/EW).
   146   0604761N                            INTELLIGENCE ENGINEERING..........          26,710          26,710
   147   0604771N                            MEDICAL DEVELOPMENT...............           8,181           8,181
   148   0604777N                            NAVIGATION/ID SYSTEM..............          40,755          40,755
   149   0604800M                            JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER (JSF)--EMD...           1,710           1,710
   150   0604800N                            JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER (JSF)--EMD...           1,490           1,490
   153   0605013M                            INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT           1,494           1,494
   154   0605013N                            INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT         384,162         268,364
         ..................................      Program decrease..............                        [-36,000]
         ..................................      Unjustified growth over FY19                          [-79,798]
                                                 projection.
   155   0605024N                            ANTI-TAMPER TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT....           4,882           4,882
   156   0605212M                            CH-53K RDTE.......................         516,955         516,955
   158   0605215N                            MISSION PLANNING..................          75,886          75,886
   159   0605217N                            COMMON AVIONICS...................          43,187          43,187
   160   0605220N                            SHIP TO SHORE CONNECTOR (SSC).....           4,909          19,909
         ..................................      Expand development and use of                          [15,000]
                                                 composite materials.
   161   0605327N                            T-AO 205 CLASS....................           1,682           1,682
   162   0605414N                            UNMANNED CARRIER AVIATION (UCA)...         671,258         657,098
         ..................................      UMCS excess to need...........                        [-14,160]
   163   0605450M                            JOINT AIR-TO-GROUND MISSILE (JAGM)          18,393          18,393
   165   0605500N                            MULTI-MISSION MARITIME AIRCRAFT             21,472          21,472
                                              (MMA).
   166   0605504N                            MULTI-MISSION MARITIME (MMA)               177,234         177,234
                                              INCREMENT III.
   167   0605611M                            MARINE CORPS ASSAULT VEHICLES               77,322          69,121
                                              SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &
                                              DEMONSTRATION.
         ..................................      Early to need.................                         [-2,201]
         ..................................      Excess growth.................                         [-6,000]
   168   0605813M                            JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE                 2,105           2,105
                                              (JLTV) SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &
                                              DEMONSTRATION.
   169   0204202N                            DDG-1000..........................         111,435         111,435
   172   0304785N                            TACTICAL CRYPTOLOGIC SYSTEMS......         101,339         101,339
   173   0306250M                            CYBER OPERATIONS TECHNOLOGY                 26,406          26,406
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &         6,332,033       6,130,663
                                                DEMONSTRATION.
         ..................................
         ..................................  MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
   174   0604256N                            THREAT SIMULATOR DEVELOPMENT......          66,678          66,678
   175   0604258N                            TARGET SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT........          12,027          12,027
   176   0604759N                            MAJOR T&E; INVESTMENT..............          85,348          85,348
   178   0605152N                            STUDIES AND ANALYSIS SUPPORT--NAVY           3,908           3,908
   179   0605154N                            CENTER FOR NAVAL ANALYSES.........          47,669          47,669
   180   0605285N                            NEXT GENERATION FIGHTER...........          20,698          20,698
   182   0605804N                            TECHNICAL INFORMATION SERVICES....             988             988
   183   0605853N                            MANAGEMENT, TECHNICAL &                    102,401         102,401
                                              INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT.
   184   0605856N                            STRATEGIC TECHNICAL SUPPORT.......           3,742           3,742
   186   0605863N                            RDT&E; SHIP AND AIRCRAFT SUPPORT...          93,872          93,872
   187   0605864N                            TEST AND EVALUATION SUPPORT.......         394,020         394,020
   188   0605865N                            OPERATIONAL TEST AND EVALUATION             25,145          25,145
                                              CAPABILITY.
   189   0605866N                            NAVY SPACE AND ELECTRONIC WARFARE           15,773          15,773
                                              (SEW) SUPPORT.
   190   0605867N                            SEW SURVEILLANCE/RECONNAISSANCE              8,402           8,402
                                              SUPPORT.
   191   0605873M                            MARINE CORPS PROGRAM WIDE SUPPORT.          37,265          29,265
         ..................................      Unjustified growth............                         [-8,000]
   192   0605898N                            MANAGEMENT HQ--R&D................;          39,673          39,673
   193   0606355N                            WARFARE INNOVATION MANAGEMENT.....          28,750          28,750
   196   0305327N                            INSIDER THREAT....................           2,645           2,645
   197   0902498N                            MANAGEMENT HEADQUARTERS                      1,460           1,460
                                              (DEPARTMENTAL SUPPORT ACTIVITIES).
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT....         990,464         982,464
         ..................................
         ..................................  OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
         ..................................  UNDISTRIBUTED
   202   0604227N                            HARPOON MODIFICATIONS.............           2,302           2,302
   203   0604840M                            F-35 C2D2.........................         422,881         422,881
   204   0604840N                            F-35 C2D2.........................         383,741         383,741
   205   0607658N                            COOPERATIVE ENGAGEMENT CAPABILITY          127,924         127,924
                                              (CEC).
   207   0101221N                            STRATEGIC SUB & WEAPONS SYSTEM             157,676         113,492
                                              SUPPORT.
         ..................................      D5LE2 unjustified request.....                        [-44,184]
   208   0101224N                            SSBN SECURITY TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM..          43,354          43,354
   209   0101226N                            SUBMARINE ACOUSTIC WARFARE                   6,815           6,815
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
   210   0101402N                            NAVY STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS.....          31,174          31,174
   211   0204136N                            F/A-18 SQUADRONS..................         213,715         208,215
         ..................................      Block III support prior year                           [-7,500]
                                                 carryover.
         ..................................      Jet noise reduction research..                          [2,000]
   213   0204228N                            SURFACE SUPPORT...................          36,389          36,389
   214   0204229N                            TOMAHAWK AND TOMAHAWK MISSION              320,134         286,799
                                              PLANNING CENTER (TMPC).
         ..................................      JMEWS schedule delays.........                        [-12,098]
         ..................................      Maritime strike schedule                              [-21,237]
                                                 delays.
   215   0204311N                            INTEGRATED SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM....          88,382         103,382
         ..................................      Additional TRAPS units........                         [15,000]
   216   0204313N                            SHIP-TOWED ARRAY SURVEILLANCE               14,449          14,449
                                              SYSTEMS.
   217   0204413N                            AMPHIBIOUS TACTICAL SUPPORT UNITS            6,931           6,931
                                              (DISPLACEMENT CRAFT).
   218   0204460M                            GROUND/AIR TASK ORIENTED RADAR (G/          23,891          23,891
                                              ATOR).
   219   0204571N                            CONSOLIDATED TRAINING SYSTEMS              129,873         129,873
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
   221   0204575N                            ELECTRONIC WARFARE (EW) READINESS           82,325          62,434
                                              SUPPORT.
         ..................................      Prior year carryover..........                        [-19,891]
   222   0205601N                            HARM IMPROVEMENT..................         138,431         132,371
         ..................................      AARGM ER test schedule                                 [-6,060]
                                                 discrepancy.
   224   0205620N                            SURFACE ASW COMBAT SYSTEM                   29,572          29,572
                                              INTEGRATION.
   225   0205632N                            MK-48 ADCAP.......................          85,973          85,973
   226   0205633N                            AVIATION IMPROVEMENTS.............         125,461         125,461
   227   0205675N                            OPERATIONAL NUCLEAR POWER SYSTEMS.         106,192         106,192
   228   0206313M                            MARINE CORPS COMMUNICATIONS                143,317         134,317
                                              SYSTEMS.
         ..................................      Program delay.................                         [-9,000]
   229   0206335M                            COMMON AVIATION COMMAND AND                  4,489           4,489
                                              CONTROL SYSTEM (CAC2S).
   230   0206623M                            MARINE CORPS GROUND COMBAT/                 51,788          51,788
                                              SUPPORTING ARMS SYSTEMS.
   231   0206624M                            MARINE CORPS COMBAT SERVICES                37,761          42,761
                                              SUPPORT.
         ..................................      Airborne Power Generation Tech                          [5,000]
                                                 Development.
   232   0206625M                            USMC INTELLIGENCE/ELECTRONIC                21,458          21,458
                                              WARFARE SYSTEMS (MIP).
   233   0206629M                            AMPHIBIOUS ASSAULT VEHICLE........           5,476           5,476
   234   0207161N                            TACTICAL AIM MISSILES.............          19,488          19,488
   235   0207163N                            ADVANCED MEDIUM RANGE AIR-TO-AIR            39,029          39,029
                                              MISSILE (AMRAAM).
   239   0303109N                            SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS (SPACE)..          34,344          34,344
   240   0303138N                            CONSOLIDATED AFLOAT NETWORK                 22,873          22,873
                                              ENTERPRISE SERVICES (CANES).
   241   0303140N                            INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY                41,853          41,853
                                              PROGRAM.
   243   0305192N                            MILITARY INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM                8,913           8,913
                                              (MIP) ACTIVITIES.
   244   0305204N                            TACTICAL UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLES.           9,451           9,451
   245   0305205N                            UAS INTEGRATION AND                         42,315          42,315
                                              INTEROPERABILITY.
   246   0305208M                            DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND/SURFACE           22,042          22,042
                                              SYSTEMS.
   248   0305220N                            MQ-4C TRITON......................          11,784          11,784
   249   0305231N                            MQ-8 UAV..........................          29,618          29,618
   250   0305232M                            RQ-11 UAV.........................             509             509
   251   0305234N                            SMALL (LEVEL 0) TACTICAL UAS                11,545          11,545
                                              (STUASL0).
   252   0305239M                            RQ-21A............................          10,914          10,914
   253   0305241N                            MULTI-INTELLIGENCE SENSOR                   70,612          70,612
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
   254   0305242M                            UNMANNED AERIAL SYSTEMS (UAS)                3,704           3,704
                                              PAYLOADS (MIP).
   255   0305421N                            RQ-4 MODERNIZATION................         202,346         185,446
         ..................................      IFC 5.0 concurrency...........                        [-16,900]
   256   0308601N                            MODELING AND SIMULATION SUPPORT...           7,119           7,119
   257   0702207N                            DEPOT MAINTENANCE (NON-IF)........          38,182          38,182
   258   0708730N                            MARITIME TECHNOLOGY (MARITECH)....           6,779           6,779
   259   1203109N                            SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS (SPACE)..          15,868          15,868
  259A   9999999999                          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...............       1,613,137       1,613,137
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS          5,104,299       4,989,429
                                                DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED.........                        -114,870
         ..................................
         ..................................       TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT,       20,270,499      19,674,604
                                                  TEST & EVAL, NAVY.
         ..................................
         ..................................  RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
                                              EVAL, AF
         ..................................  BASIC RESEARCH
   001   0601102F                            DEFENSE RESEARCH SCIENCES.........         356,107         356,107
   002   0601103F                            UNIVERSITY RESEARCH INITIATIVES...         158,859         163,859
         ..................................      Program increase..............                          [5,000]
   003   0601108F                            HIGH ENERGY LASER RESEARCH                  14,795          14,795
                                              INITIATIVES.
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL BASIC RESEARCH........         529,761         534,761
         ..................................
         ..................................  APPLIED RESEARCH
   004   0602102F                            MATERIALS.........................         128,851         152,851
         ..................................      Advanced materials high energy                          [4,000]
                                                 x-ray.
         ..................................      Advanced materials                                      [5,000]
                                                 manufacturing flexible
                                                 biosensors.
         ..................................      Advanced thermal protection                             [5,000]
                                                 systems.
         ..................................      Program increase..............                         [10,000]
   005   0602201F                            AEROSPACE VEHICLE TECHNOLOGIES....         147,724         147,724
   006   0602202F                            HUMAN EFFECTIVENESS APPLIED                131,795         131,795
                                              RESEARCH.
   007   0602203F                            AEROSPACE PROPULSION..............         198,775         208,775
         ..................................      Educational partnership                                 [5,000]
                                                 agreements for next generation
                                                 liquid propulsion.
         ..................................      Electrical power/thermal                                [5,000]
                                                 management systems.
   008   0602204F                            AEROSPACE SENSORS.................         202,912         202,912
   010   0602298F                            SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT--          7,968           7,968
                                               MAJOR HEADQUARTERS ACTIVITIES.
   012   0602602F                            CONVENTIONAL MUNITIONS............         142,772         142,772
   013   0602605F                            DIRECTED ENERGY TECHNOLOGY........         124,379         124,379
   014   0602788F                            DOMINANT INFORMATION SCIENCES AND          181,562         199,562
                                              METHODS.
         ..................................      Detection and countering of                             [5,000]
                                                 adversarial UAS.
         ..................................      Quantum Information Science                             [8,000]
                                                 Innovation Center.
         ..................................      Quantum science...............                          [5,000]
   015   0602890F                            HIGH ENERGY LASER RESEARCH........          44,221          44,221
   016   1206601F                            SPACE TECHNOLOGY..................         124,667         124,667
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL APPLIED RESEARCH......       1,435,626       1,487,626
         ..................................
         ..................................  ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
   017   0603112F                            ADVANCED MATERIALS FOR WEAPON               36,586          41,586
                                              SYSTEMS.
         ..................................      Metals affordability                                    [5,000]
                                                 initiative.
   018   0603199F                            SUSTAINMENT SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY          16,249          16,249
                                              (S&T;).
   019   0603203F                            ADVANCED AEROSPACE SENSORS........          38,292          38,292
   020   0603211F                            AEROSPACE TECHNOLOGY DEV/DEMO.....         102,949         202,949
         ..................................      Low cost attritable aircraft                          [100,000]
                                                 technology.
   021   0603216F                            AEROSPACE PROPULSION AND POWER             113,973         128,973
                                              TECHNOLOGY.
         ..................................      Advanced turbine engine gas                            [10,000]
                                                 generator.
         ..................................      Electrical power systems......                          [5,000]
   022   0603270F                            ELECTRONIC COMBAT TECHNOLOGY......          48,408          48,408
   023   0603401F                            ADVANCED SPACECRAFT TECHNOLOGY....          70,525          73,525
         ..................................      Strategic radiation hardened                            [3,000]
                                                 microelectronic processors.
   024   0603444F                            MAUI SPACE SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM              11,878          11,878
                                              (MSSS).
   025   0603456F                            HUMAN EFFECTIVENESS ADVANCED                37,542          37,542
                                              TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT.
   026   0603601F                            CONVENTIONAL WEAPONS TECHNOLOGY...         225,817         225,817
   027   0603605F                            ADVANCED WEAPONS TECHNOLOGY.......          37,404          37,404
   028   0603680F                            MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM..          43,116          66,116
         ..................................      Advanced materials and                                  [7,000]
                                                 materials manufacturing.
         ..................................      Aerospace composites                                   [10,000]
                                                 manufacturing.
         ..................................      Program increase..............                          [6,000]
   029   0603788F                            BATTLESPACE KNOWLEDGE DEVELOPMENT           56,414          56,414
                                              AND DEMONSTRATION.
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY            839,153         985,153
                                                DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................
         ..................................  ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
                                              PROTOTYPES
   031   0603260F                            INTELLIGENCE ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT.           5,672           5,672
   032   0603742F                            COMBAT IDENTIFICATION TECHNOLOGY..          27,085          27,085
   033   0603790F                            NATO RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.....           4,955           4,955
   034   0603851F                            INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC                  44,109          44,109
                                              MISSILE--DEM/VAL.
   036   0604002F                            AIR FORCE WEATHER SERVICES                     772             772
                                              RESEARCH.
   037   0604004F                            ADVANCED ENGINE DEVELOPMENT.......         878,442         878,442
   038   0604015F                            LONG RANGE STRIKE--BOMBER.........       3,003,899       3,003,899
   039   0604032F                            DIRECTED ENERGY PROTOTYPING.......          10,000          20,000
         ..................................      High-value airborne asset                              [10,000]
                                                 protection.
   040   0604033F                            HYPERSONICS PROTOTYPING...........         576,000         576,000
   041   0604201F                            PNT RESILIENCY, MODS, AND                   92,600         124,600
                                              IMPROVEMENTS.
         ..................................      Program increase..............                         [32,000]
   042   0604257F                            ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY AND SENSORS...          23,145          23,145
   043   0604288F                            NATIONAL AIRBORNE OPS CENTER                16,669          16,669
                                              (NAOC) RECAP.
   044   0604317F                            TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER...............          23,614          23,614
   045   0604327F                            HARD AND DEEPLY BURIED TARGET              113,121         113,121
                                              DEFEAT SYSTEM (HDBTDS) PROGRAM.
   046   0604414F                            CYBER RESILIENCY OF WEAPON SYSTEMS-         56,325          56,325
                                              ACS.
   047   0604776F                            DEPLOYMENT & DISTRIBUTION                   28,034          28,034
                                              ENTERPRISE R&D.;
   048   0604858F                            TECH TRANSITION PROGRAM...........         128,476         134,476
         ..................................      Rapid repair..................                          [6,000]
   049   0605230F                            GROUND BASED STRATEGIC DETERRENT..         570,373         552,395
         ..................................      Program reduction.............                        [-40,000]
         ..................................      Technical adjustment for NC3..                         [22,022]
   050   0207100F                            LIGHT ATTACK ARMED RECONNAISSANCE           35,000          35,000
                                              (LAAR) SQUADRONS.
   051   0207110F                            NEXT GENERATION AIR DOMINANCE.....       1,000,000         955,000
         ..................................      Cost-risk associated with                             [-45,000]
                                                 development profile.
   052   0207455F                            THREE DIMENSIONAL LONG-RANGE RADAR          37,290          37,290
                                              (3DELRR).
   053   0208099F                            UNIFIED PLATFORM (UP).............          10,000          10,000
   054   0305236F                            COMMON DATA LINK EXECUTIVE AGENT            36,910          36,910
                                              (CDL EA).
   055   0305251F                            CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS FORCES AND            35,000          35,000
                                              FORCE SUPPORT.
   056   0305601F                            MISSION PARTNER ENVIRONMENTS......           8,550           8,550
   057   0306250F                            CYBER OPERATIONS TECHNOLOGY                198,864         240,064
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................      Accelerate development of                              [13,600]
                                                 Cyber National Mission Force
                                                 capabilities.
         ..................................      ETERNALDARKNESS...............                          [7,100]
         ..................................      Joint Common Access Platform..                         [20,500]
   058   0306415F                            ENABLED CYBER ACTIVITIES..........          16,632          16,632
   060   0901410F                            CONTRACTING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY          20,830          20,830
                                              SYSTEM.
   061   1203164F                            NAVSTAR GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM          329,948         329,948
                                              (USER EQUIPMENT) (SPACE).
   062   1203710F                            EO/IR WEATHER SYSTEMS.............         101,222         101,222
   063   1206422F                            WEATHER SYSTEM FOLLOW-ON..........         225,660         205,660
         ..................................      Unjustified growth............                        [-20,000]
   064   1206425F                            SPACE SITUATION AWARENESS SYSTEMS.          29,776          29,776
   065   1206427F                            SPACE SYSTEMS PROTOTYPE                    142,045         142,045
                                              TRANSITIONS (SSPT).
   067   1206438F                            SPACE CONTROL TECHNOLOGY..........          64,231          59,231
         ..................................      Unjustified growth............                         [-5,000]
   068   1206730F                            SPACE SECURITY AND DEFENSE PROGRAM          56,385          56,385
   069   1206760F                            PROTECTED TACTICAL ENTERPRISE              105,003         105,003
                                              SERVICE (PTES).
   070   1206761F                            PROTECTED TACTICAL SERVICE (PTS)..         173,694         163,694
         ..................................      Unjustified growth............                        [-10,000]
   071   1206855F                            EVOLVED STRATEGIC SATCOM (ESS)....         172,206         172,206
   072   1206857F                            SPACE RAPID CAPABILITIES OFFICE...          33,742          23,742
         ..................................      Program decrease..............                        [-10,000]
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT           8,436,279       8,417,501
                                                DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES.
         ..................................
         ..................................  SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
   073   0604200F                            FUTURE ADVANCED WEAPON ANALYSIS &          246,200               0
                                              PROGRAMS.
         ..................................      Excess to need................                       [-246,200]
   074   0604201F                            PNT RESILIENCY, MODS, AND                   67,782         148,782
                                              IMPROVEMENTS.
         ..................................      UPL M-Code Acceleration.......                         [81,000]
   075   0604222F                            NUCLEAR WEAPONS SUPPORT...........           4,406           4,406
   076   0604270F                            ELECTRONIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT....           2,066           2,066
   077   0604281F                            TACTICAL DATA NETWORKS ENTERPRISE.         229,631         210,331
         ..................................      Prior-year carryover..........                        [-19,300]
   078   0604287F                            PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT.......           9,700           9,700
   079   0604329F                            SMALL DIAMETER BOMB (SDB)--EMD....          31,241          41,241
         ..................................      Program efficiency initiative.                         [10,000]
   080   0604429F                            AIRBORNE ELECTRONIC ATTACK........               2               2
   081   0604602F                            ARMAMENT/ORDNANCE DEVELOPMENT.....          28,043          28,043
   082   0604604F                            SUBMUNITIONS......................           3,045           3,045
   083   0604617F                            AGILE COMBAT SUPPORT..............          19,944          19,944
   084   0604706F                            LIFE SUPPORT SYSTEMS..............           8,624           8,624
   085   0604735F                            COMBAT TRAINING RANGES............          37,365          37,365
   086   0604800F                            F-35--EMD.........................           7,628           7,628
   087   0604932F                            LONG RANGE STANDOFF WEAPON........         712,539         712,539
   088   0604933F                            ICBM FUZE MODERNIZATION...........         161,199         161,199
   089   0605030F                            JOINT TACTICAL NETWORK CENTER                2,414           2,414
                                              (JTNC).
   091   0605056F                            OPEN ARCHITECTURE MANAGEMENT......          30,000          30,000
   093   0605221F                            KC-46.............................          59,561          59,561
   094   0605223F                            ADVANCED PILOT TRAINING...........         348,473         348,473
   095   0605229F                            COMBAT RESCUE HELICOPTER..........         247,047         247,047
   098   0605931F                            B-2 DEFENSIVE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM...         294,400         294,400
   099   0101125F                            NUCLEAR WEAPONS MODERNIZATION.....          27,564          27,564
   100   0101213F                            MINUTEMAN SQUADRONS...............               1               1
   101   0207171F                            F-15 EPAWSS.......................          47,322          47,322
   102   0207328F                            STAND IN ATTACK WEAPON............         162,840         162,840
   103   0207701F                            FULL COMBAT MISSION TRAINING......           9,797           9,797
   106   0401310F                            C-32 EXECUTIVE TRANSPORT                     9,930           9,930
                                              RECAPITALIZATION.
   107   0401319F                            VC-25B............................         757,923         757,923
   108   0701212F                            AUTOMATED TEST SYSTEMS............           2,787           2,787
   109   1203176F                            COMBAT SURVIVOR EVADER LOCATOR....           2,000           2,000
   110   1203269F                            GPS III FOLLOW-ON (GPS IIIF)......         462,875         452,875
         ..................................      Unjustified growth............                        [-10,000]
   111   1203940F                            SPACE SITUATION AWARENESS                   76,829          56,829
                                              OPERATIONS.
         ..................................      GBOSS unjustified growth......                        [-20,000]
   112   1206421F                            COUNTERSPACE SYSTEMS..............          29,037          29,037
   113   1206422F                            WEATHER SYSTEM FOLLOW-ON..........           2,237           2,237
   114   1206425F                            SPACE SITUATION AWARENESS SYSTEMS.         412,894         412,894
   116   1206431F                            ADVANCED EHF MILSATCOM (SPACE)....         117,290         117,290
   117   1206432F                            POLAR MILSATCOM (SPACE)...........         427,400         401,400
         ..................................      Prior year carryover..........                        [-26,000]
   118   1206433F                            WIDEBAND GLOBAL SATCOM (SPACE)....           1,920           1,920
   119   1206441F                            SPACE BASED INFRARED SYSTEM                      1               1
                                              (SBIRS) HIGH EMD.
   120   1206442F                            NEXT GENERATION OPIR..............       1,395,278       1,395,278
   121   1206445F                            COMMERCIAL SATCOM (COMSATCOM)                                5,000
                                              INTEGRATION.
         ..................................      Accelerate integration of                               [5,000]
                                                 COMSATCOM capabilities.
   122   1206853F                            NATIONAL SECURITY SPACE LAUNCH             432,009         432,009
                                              PROGRAM (SPACE)--EMD.
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &         6,929,244       6,703,744
                                                DEMONSTRATION.
         ..................................
         ..................................  MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
   123   0604256F                            THREAT SIMULATOR DEVELOPMENT......          59,693          59,693
   124   0604759F                            MAJOR T&E; INVESTMENT..............         181,663         219,663
         ..................................      Telemetry extension SATCOM                              [2,000]
                                                 relay.
         ..................................      UPL M-Code Acceleration.......                         [36,000]
   125   0605101F                            RAND PROJECT AIR FORCE............          35,258          35,258
   127   0605712F                            INITIAL OPERATIONAL TEST &                  13,793          13,793
                                              EVALUATION.
   128   0605807F                            TEST AND EVALUATION SUPPORT.......         717,895         717,895
   129   0605826F                            ACQ WORKFORCE- GLOBAL POWER.......         258,667         258,667
   130   0605827F                            ACQ WORKFORCE- GLOBAL VIG & COMBAT         251,992         251,992
                                              SYS.
   131   0605828F                            ACQ WORKFORCE- GLOBAL REACH.......         149,191         149,191
   132   0605829F                            ACQ WORKFORCE- CYBER, NETWORK, &           235,360         235,360
                                              BUS SYS.
   133   0605830F                            ACQ WORKFORCE- GLOBAL BATTLE MGMT.         160,196         160,196
   134   0605831F                            ACQ WORKFORCE- CAPABILITY                  220,255         220,255
                                              INTEGRATION.
   135   0605832F                            ACQ WORKFORCE- ADVANCED PRGM                42,392          42,392
                                              TECHNOLOGY.
   136   0605833F                            ACQ WORKFORCE- NUCLEAR SYSTEMS....         133,231         133,231
   137   0605898F                            MANAGEMENT HQ--R&D................;           5,590           5,590
   138   0605976F                            FACILITIES RESTORATION AND                  88,445          88,445
                                              MODERNIZATION--TEST AND
                                              EVALUATION SUPPORT.
   139   0605978F                            FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT--TEST AND            29,424          29,424
                                              EVALUATION SUPPORT.
   140   0606017F                            REQUIREMENTS ANALYSIS AND                   62,715          62,715
                                              MATURATION.
   141   0606398F                            MANAGEMENT HQ--T&E................;           5,013           5,013
   142   0308602F                            ENTEPRISE INFORMATION SERVICES              17,128          17,128
                                              (EIS).
   143   0702806F                            ACQUISITION AND MANAGEMENT SUPPORT           5,913           5,913
   144   0804731F                            GENERAL SKILL TRAINING............           1,475           1,475
   146   1001004F                            INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES..........           4,071           4,071
   147   1206116F                            SPACE TEST AND TRAINING RANGE               19,942          19,942
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
   148   1206392F                            SPACE AND MISSILE CENTER (SMC)             167,810         167,810
                                              CIVILIAN WORKFORCE.
   149   1206398F                            SPACE & MISSILE SYSTEMS CENTER--            10,170          10,170
                                              MHA.
   150   1206860F                            ROCKET SYSTEMS LAUNCH PROGRAM               13,192          13,192
                                              (SPACE).
   151   1206864F                            SPACE TEST PROGRAM (STP)..........          26,097          26,097
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT....       2,916,571       2,954,571
         ..................................
         ..................................  OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
         ..................................  UNDISTRIBUTED
   152   0604003F                            ADVANCED BATTLE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM           35,611          33,611
                                              (ABMS).
         ..................................      Program increase--sensor                                [8,000]
                                                 fusion and artificial
                                                 intelligence technology.
         ..................................      Unjustified request...........                        [-10,000]
   154   0604233F                            SPECIALIZED UNDERGRADUATE FLIGHT             2,584           2,584
                                              TRAINING.
   156   0604776F                            DEPLOYMENT & DISTRIBUTION                      903             903
                                              ENTERPRISE R&D.;
   157   0604840F                            F-35 C2D2.........................         694,455         694,455
   158   0605018F                            AF INTEGRATED PERSONNEL AND PAY             40,567          40,567
                                              SYSTEM (AF-IPPS).
   159   0605024F                            ANTI-TAMPER TECHNOLOGY EXECUTIVE            47,193          47,193
                                              AGENCY.
   160   0605117F                            FOREIGN MATERIEL ACQUISITION AND            70,083          70,083
                                              EXPLOITATION.
   161   0605278F                            HC/MC-130 RECAP RDT&E.............;          17,218          17,218
   162   0606018F                            NC3 INTEGRATION...................          25,917          25,917
   164   0101113F                            B-52 SQUADRONS....................         325,974         325,974
   165   0101122F                            AIR-LAUNCHED CRUISE MISSILE (ALCM)          10,217          10,217
   166   0101126F                            B-1B SQUADRONS....................           1,000           1,000
   167   0101127F                            B-2 SQUADRONS.....................          97,276          97,276
   168   0101213F                            MINUTEMAN SQUADRONS...............         128,961         128,961
   170   0101316F                            WORLDWIDE JOINT STRATEGIC                   18,177          18,177
                                              COMMUNICATIONS.
   171   0101324F                            INTEGRATED STRATEGIC PLANNING &             24,261          24,261
                                              ANALYSIS NETWORK.
   172   0101328F                            ICBM REENTRY VEHICLES.............          75,571          41,271
         ..................................      Program delay.................                        [-34,300]
   174   0102110F                            UH-1N REPLACEMENT PROGRAM.........         170,975         170,975
   176   0205219F                            MQ-9 UAV..........................         154,996         127,296
         ..................................      Program reduction.............                        [-27,700]
   178   0207131F                            A-10 SQUADRONS....................          36,816          36,816
   179   0207133F                            F-16 SQUADRONS....................         193,013         193,013
   180   0207134F                            F-15E SQUADRONS...................         336,079         319,829
         ..................................      Unjustified F-15C requirements                        [-16,250]
   181   0207136F                            MANNED DESTRUCTIVE SUPPRESSION....          15,521          15,521
   182   0207138F                            F-22A SQUADRONS...................         496,298         496,298
   183   0207142F                            F-35 SQUADRONS....................          99,943          99,943
   184   0207161F                            TACTICAL AIM MISSILES.............          10,314          10,314
   185   0207163F                            ADVANCED MEDIUM RANGE AIR-TO-AIR            55,384          55,384
                                              MISSILE (AMRAAM).
   186   0207227F                            COMBAT RESCUE--PARARESCUE.........             281             281
   187   0207247F                            AF TENCAP.........................          21,365          21,365
   188   0207249F                            PRECISION ATTACK SYSTEMS                    10,696          10,696
                                              PROCUREMENT.
   189   0207253F                            COMPASS CALL......................          15,888          15,888
   190   0207268F                            AIRCRAFT ENGINE COMPONENT                  112,505         112,505
                                              IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.
   191   0207325F                            JOINT AIR-TO-SURFACE STANDOFF               78,498          78,498
                                              MISSILE (JASSM).
   192   0207410F                            AIR & SPACE OPERATIONS CENTER              114,864         114,864
                                              (AOC).
   193   0207412F                            CONTROL AND REPORTING CENTER (CRC)           8,109           8,109
   194   0207417F                            AIRBORNE WARNING AND CONTROL                67,996          67,996
                                              SYSTEM (AWACS).
   195   0207418F                            TACTICAL AIRBORNE CONTROL SYSTEMS.           2,462           2,462
   197   0207431F                            COMBAT AIR INTELLIGENCE SYSTEM              13,668          13,668
                                              ACTIVITIES.
   198   0207444F                            TACTICAL AIR CONTROL PARTY-MOD....           6,217           6,217
   200   0207452F                            DCAPES............................          19,910          19,910
   201   0207573F                            NATIONAL TECHNICAL NUCLEAR                   1,788           1,788
                                              FORENSICS.
   202   0207590F                            SEEK EAGLE........................          28,237          28,237
   203   0207601F                            USAF MODELING AND SIMULATION......          15,725          15,725
   204   0207605F                            WARGAMING AND SIMULATION CENTERS..           4,316           4,316
   205   0207610F                            BATTLEFIELD ABN COMM NODE (BACN)..          26,946          26,946
   206   0207697F                            DISTRIBUTED TRAINING AND EXERCISES           4,303           4,303
   207   0208006F                            MISSION PLANNING SYSTEMS..........          71,465          71,465
   208   0208007F                            TACTICAL DECEPTION................           7,446           7,446
   209   0208064F                            OPERATIONAL HQ--CYBER.............           7,602           7,602
   210   0208087F                            DISTRIBUTED CYBER WARFARE                   35,178          35,178
                                              OPERATIONS.
   211   0208088F                            AF DEFENSIVE CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS          16,609          16,609
   212   0208097F                            JOINT CYBER COMMAND AND CONTROL             11,603          11,603
                                              (JCC2).
   213   0208099F                            UNIFIED PLATFORM (UP).............          84,702          84,702
   219   0301025F                            GEOBASE...........................           2,723           2,723
   220   0301112F                            NUCLEAR PLANNING AND EXECUTION              44,190          44,190
                                              SYSTEM (NPES).
   226   0301401F                            AIR FORCE SPACE AND CYBER NON-               3,575           3,575
                                              TRADITIONAL ISR FOR BATTLESPACE
                                              AWARENESS.
   227   0302015F                            E-4B NATIONAL AIRBORNE OPERATIONS           70,173          42,623
                                              CENTER (NAOC).
         ..................................      Unclear acquisition strategy..                        [-27,550]
   228   0303131F                            MINIMUM ESSENTIAL EMERGENCY                 13,543          13,543
                                              COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK (MEECN).
   229   0303133F                            HIGH FREQUENCY RADIO SYSTEMS......          15,881          15,881
   230   0303140F                            INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY                27,726          27,726
                                              PROGRAM.
   232   0303142F                            GLOBAL FORCE MANAGEMENT--DATA                2,210           2,210
                                              INITIATIVE.
   234   0304115F                            MULTI DOMAIN COMMAND AND CONTROL           150,880         150,880
                                              (MDC2).
   235   0304260F                            AIRBORNE SIGINT ENTERPRISE........         102,667          85,167
         ..................................      Common development ahead of                            [-8,500]
                                                 need.
         ..................................      Program reduction.............                         [-9,000]
   236   0304310F                            COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC ANALYSIS......           3,431           3,431
   239   0305015F                            C2 AIR OPERATIONS SUITE--C2 INFO             9,313           9,313
                                              SERVICES.
   240   0305020F                            CCMD INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION                1,121           1,121
                                              TECHNOLOGY.
   241   0305022F                            ISR MODERNIZATION & AUTOMATION              19,000           3,000
                                              DVMT (IMAD).
         ..................................      Unjustified request...........                        [-16,000]
   242   0305099F                            GLOBAL AIR TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT                4,544           4,544
                                              (GATM).
   243   0305111F                            WEATHER SERVICE...................          25,461          27,461
         ..................................      Commercial weather data pilot.                          [2,000]
   244   0305114F                            AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL, APPROACH, AND           5,651           5,651
                                              LANDING SYSTEM (ATCALS).
   245   0305116F                            AERIAL TARGETS....................           7,448           7,448
   248   0305128F                            SECURITY AND INVESTIGATIVE                     425             425
                                              ACTIVITIES.
   249   0305145F                            ARMS CONTROL IMPLEMENTATION.......          54,546          54,546
   250   0305146F                            DEFENSE JOINT COUNTERINTELLIGENCE            6,858           6,858
                                              ACTIVITIES.
   252   0305179F                            INTEGRATED BROADCAST SERVICE (IBS)           8,728           8,728
   253   0305202F                            DRAGON U-2........................          38,939          38,939
   255   0305206F                            AIRBORNE RECONNAISSANCE SYSTEMS...         122,909         132,909
         ..................................      Program increase for Gorgon                            [10,000]
                                                 Stare sensor enhancements.
   256   0305207F                            MANNED RECONNAISSANCE SYSTEMS.....          11,787          11,787
   257   0305208F                            DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND/SURFACE           25,009          25,009
                                              SYSTEMS.
   258   0305220F                            RQ-4 UAV..........................         191,733         191,733
   259   0305221F                            NETWORK-CENTRIC COLLABORATIVE               10,757          10,757
                                              TARGETING.
   260   0305238F                            NATO AGS..........................          32,567          32,567
   261   0305240F                            SUPPORT TO DCGS ENTERPRISE........          37,774          37,774
   262   0305600F                            INTERNATIONAL INTELLIGENCE                  13,515          13,515
                                              TECHNOLOGY AND ARCHITECTURES.
   263   0305881F                            RAPID CYBER ACQUISITION...........           4,383           4,383
   264   0305984F                            PERSONNEL RECOVERY COMMAND & CTRL            2,133           2,133
                                              (PRC2).
   265   0307577F                            INTELLIGENCE MISSION DATA (IMD)...           8,614           8,614
   266   0401115F                            C-130 AIRLIFT SQUADRON............         140,425         101,425
         ..................................      Contract award savings........                        [-39,000]
   267   0401119F                            C-5 AIRLIFT SQUADRONS (IF)........          10,223          10,223
   268   0401130F                            C-17 AIRCRAFT (IF)................          25,101          25,101
   269   0401132F                            C-130J PROGRAM....................           8,640           8,640
   270   0401134F                            LARGE AIRCRAFT IR COUNTERMEASURES            5,424           5,424
                                              (LAIRCM).
   272   0401219F                            KC-10S............................              20              20
   274   0401318F                            CV-22.............................          17,906          17,906
   276   0408011F                            SPECIAL TACTICS / COMBAT CONTROL..           3,629           3,629
   277   0702207F                            DEPOT MAINTENANCE (NON-IF)........           1,890           1,890
   278   0708055F                            MAINTENANCE, REPAIR & OVERHAUL              10,311          10,311
                                              SYSTEM.
   279   0708610F                            LOGISTICS INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY            16,065          16,065
                                              (LOGIT).
   280   0708611F                            SUPPORT SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT.......             539             539
   281   0804743F                            OTHER FLIGHT TRAINING.............           2,057           2,057
   282   0808716F                            OTHER PERSONNEL ACTIVITIES........              10              10
   283   0901202F                            JOINT PERSONNEL RECOVERY AGENCY...           2,060           2,060
   284   0901218F                            CIVILIAN COMPENSATION PROGRAM.....           3,809           3,809
   285   0901220F                            PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION..........           6,476           6,476
   286   0901226F                            AIR FORCE STUDIES AND ANALYSIS               1,443           1,443
                                              AGENCY.
   287   0901538F                            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT INFORMATION             9,323           9,323
                                              SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT.
   288   0901554F                            DEFENSE ENTERPRISE ACNTNG AND MGT           46,789          46,789
                                              SYS (DEAMS).
   289   1201017F                            GLOBAL SENSOR INTEGRATED ON                  3,647           3,647
                                              NETWORK (GSIN).
   290   1201921F                            SERVICE SUPPORT TO STRATCOM--SPACE             988             988
                                              ACTIVITIES.
   291   1202140F                            SERVICE SUPPORT TO SPACECOM                 11,863          11,863
                                              ACTIVITIES.
   293   1203001F                            FAMILY OF ADVANCED BLOS TERMINALS          197,388         177,388
                                              (FAB-T).
         ..................................      FET schedule slip.............                        [-15,000]
         ..................................      Unjustified growth............                         [-5,000]
   294   1203110F                            SATELLITE CONTROL NETWORK (SPACE).          61,891          61,891
   297   1203173F                            SPACE AND MISSILE TEST AND                   4,566           4,566
                                              EVALUATION CENTER.
   298   1203174F                            SPACE INNOVATION, INTEGRATION AND           43,292          43,292
                                              RAPID TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT.
   300   1203182F                            SPACELIFT RANGE SYSTEM (SPACE)....          10,837          10,837
   301   1203265F                            GPS III SPACE SEGMENT.............          42,440          42,440
   302   1203400F                            SPACE SUPERIORITY INTELLIGENCE....          14,428          14,428
   303   1203614F                            JSPOC MISSION SYSTEM..............          72,762          72,762
   304   1203620F                            NATIONAL SPACE DEFENSE CENTER.....           2,653           2,653
   306   1203873F                            BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE RADARS..          15,881          15,881
   308   1203913F                            NUDET DETECTION SYSTEM (SPACE)....          49,300          49,300
   309   1203940F                            SPACE SITUATION AWARENESS                   17,834          17,834
                                              OPERATIONS.
   310   1206423F                            GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM III--            445,302         445,302
                                              OPERATIONAL CONTROL SEGMENT.
   311   1206770F                            ENTERPRISE GROUND SERVICES........         138,870          99,070
         ..................................      Contract award delay..........                        [-39,800]
  311A   9999999999                          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...............      18,351,506      18,229,506
         ..................................      Classified reduction..........                       [-122,000]
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS         24,851,488      24,501,388
                                                DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED.........                        -350,100
         ..................................
         ..................................       TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT,       45,938,122      45,584,744
                                                  TEST & EVAL, AF.
         ..................................
         ..................................  RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
                                              EVAL, DW
         ..................................  BASIC RESEARCH
   001   0601000BR                           DTRA BASIC RESEARCH...............          26,000          26,000
   002   0601101E                            DEFENSE RESEARCH SCIENCES.........         432,284         432,284
   003   0601110D8Z                          BASIC RESEARCH INITIATIVES........          48,874          68,874
         ..................................      DEPSCOR.......................                         [10,000]
         ..................................      Program increase..............                         [10,000]
   004   0601117E                            BASIC OPERATIONAL MEDICAL RESEARCH          54,122          54,122
                                              SCIENCE.
   005   0601120D8Z                          NATIONAL DEFENSE EDUCATION PROGRAM          92,074         102,074
         ..................................      Civics education grant program                          [2,000]
         ..................................      Submarine industrial base                               [8,000]
                                                 workforce training and
                                                 education.
   006   0601228D8Z                          HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND             30,708          46,708
                                              UNIVERSITIES/MINORITY
                                              INSTITUTIONS.
         ..................................      Aerospace research and                                  [2,000]
                                                 education.
         ..................................      Program increase..............                         [14,000]
   007   0601384BP                           CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE             45,238          45,238
                                              PROGRAM.
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL BASIC RESEARCH........         729,300         775,300
         ..................................
         ..................................  APPLIED RESEARCH
   008   0602000D8Z                          JOINT MUNITIONS TECHNOLOGY........          19,306          19,306
   009   0602115E                            BIOMEDICAL TECHNOLOGY.............          97,771          97,771
   011   0602234D8Z                          LINCOLN LABORATORY RESEARCH                 52,317          52,317
                                              PROGRAM.
   012   0602251D8Z                          APPLIED RESEARCH FOR THE                    62,200          55,400
                                              ADVANCEMENT OF S&T; PRIORITIES.
         ..................................      Computer modeling of PFAS.....                          [2,000]
         ..................................      Excess growth.................                         [-8,800]
   013   0602303E                            INFORMATION & COMMUNICATIONS               442,556         437,556
                                              TECHNOLOGY.
         ..................................      Unjustified growth............                         [-5,000]
   014   0602383E                            BIOLOGICAL WARFARE DEFENSE........          34,588          34,588
   015   0602384BP                           CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE            202,587         215,087
                                              PROGRAM.
         ..................................      Program increase..............                         [12,500]
   016   0602668D8Z                          CYBER SECURITY RESEARCH...........          15,118          25,118
         ..................................      Academic cyber institutes.....                         [10,000]
   017   0602702E                            TACTICAL TECHNOLOGY...............         337,602         337,602
   018   0602715E                            MATERIALS AND BIOLOGICAL                   223,976         223,976
                                              TECHNOLOGY.
   019   0602716E                            ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY............         332,192         326,192
         ..................................      Unjustified growth............                         [-6,000]
   020   0602718BR                           COUNTER WEAPONS OF MASS                    179,096         174,096
                                              DESTRUCTION APPLIED RESEARCH.
         ..................................      Unjustified growth............                         [-5,000]
   021   0602751D8Z                          SOFTWARE ENGINEERING INSTITUTE               9,580           9,580
                                              (SEI) APPLIED RESEARCH.
   022   1160401BB                           SOF TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT........          40,569          40,569
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL APPLIED RESEARCH......       2,049,458       2,049,158
         ..................................
         ..................................  ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
   023   0603000D8Z                          JOINT MUNITIONS ADVANCED                    25,779          25,779
                                              TECHNOLOGY.
   024   0603121D8Z                          SO/LIC ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT.......           5,000           5,000
   025   0603122D8Z                          COMBATING TERRORISM TECHNOLOGY              70,517          75,517
                                              SUPPORT.
         ..................................      Program increase..............                          [5,000]
   026   0603133D8Z                          FOREIGN COMPARATIVE TESTING.......          24,970          24,970
   028   0603160BR                           COUNTER WEAPONS OF MASS                    340,065         338,575
                                              DESTRUCTION ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................      Excess growth.................                         [-1,490]
   029   0603176C                            ADVANCED CONCEPTS AND PERFORMANCE           14,208          14,208
                                              ASSESSMENT.
   030   0603178C                            WEAPONS TECHNOLOGY................          10,000               0
         ..................................      MD72 program termination......                        [-10,000]
   031   0603180C                            ADVANCED RESEARCH.................          20,674          27,674
         ..................................      Advanced carbon-carbon                                  [7,000]
                                                 composites manufacturing.
   032   0603225D8Z                          JOINT DOD-DOE MUNITIONS TECHNOLOGY          18,773          18,773
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
   033   0603286E                            ADVANCED AEROSPACE SYSTEMS........         279,741         279,741
   034   0603287E                            SPACE PROGRAMS AND TECHNOLOGY.....         202,606         172,606
         ..................................      RSGS program delays...........                        [-30,000]
   035   0603288D8Z                          ANALYTIC ASSESSMENTS..............          19,429          19,429
   036   0603289D8Z                          ADVANCED INNOVATIVE ANALYSIS AND            37,645          37,645
                                              CONCEPTS.
   037   0603291D8Z                          ADVANCED INNOVATIVE ANALYSIS AND            14,668          14,668
                                              CONCEPTS--MHA.
   038   0603294C                            COMMON KILL VEHICLE TECHNOLOGY....          13,600          13,600
   040   0603342D8Z                          DEFENSE INNOVATION UNIT (DIU).....          29,398          29,398
   041   0603375D8Z                          TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION.............          60,000          30,000
         ..................................      Insufficient justification....                        [-30,000]
   042   0603384BP                           CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE            172,486         172,486
                                              PROGRAM--ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT.
   043   0603527D8Z                          RETRACT LARCH.....................         159,688         159,688
   044   0603618D8Z                          JOINT ELECTRONIC ADVANCED                   12,063          12,063
                                              TECHNOLOGY.
   045   0603648D8Z                          JOINT CAPABILITY TECHNOLOGY                107,359          89,859
                                              DEMONSTRATIONS.
         ..................................      Program reduction.............                        [-17,500]
   046   0603662D8Z                          NETWORKED COMMUNICATIONS                     2,858           2,858
                                              CAPABILITIES.
   047   0603680D8Z                          DEFENSE-WIDE MANUFACTURING SCIENCE          96,397         116,397
                                              AND TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM.
         ..................................      Additive manufacturing........                         [10,000]
         ..................................      Integrated silicon based                                [5,000]
                                                 lasers.
         ..................................      Program increase..............                          [5,000]
   048   0603680S                            MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM..          42,834          42,834
   049   0603699D8Z                          EMERGING CAPABILITIES TECHNOLOGY            80,911          80,911
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
   050   0603712S                            GENERIC LOGISTICS R&D; TECHNOLOGY            10,817          10,817
                                              DEMONSTRATIONS.
   051   0603716D8Z                          STRATEGIC ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH            66,157          66,157
                                              PROGRAM.
   052   0603720S                            MICROELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY                171,771         171,771
                                              DEVELOPMENT AND SUPPORT.
   053   0603727D8Z                          JOINT WARFIGHTING PROGRAM.........           4,846           4,846
   054   0603739E                            ADVANCED ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGIES.         128,616         128,616
   055   0603760E                            COMMAND, CONTROL AND                       232,134         232,134
                                              COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS.
   056   0603766E                            NETWORK-CENTRIC WARFARE TECHNOLOGY         512,424         507,424
         ..................................      Unjustified increase..........                         [-5,000]
   057   0603767E                            SENSOR TECHNOLOGY.................         163,903         163,903
   058   0603769D8Z                          DISTRIBUTED LEARNING ADVANCED               13,723          13,723
                                              TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT.
   059   0603781D8Z                          SOFTWARE ENGINEERING INSTITUTE....          15,111          15,111
   060   0603826D8Z                          QUICK REACTION SPECIAL PROJECTS...          47,147          47,147
   061   0603833D8Z                          ENGINEERING SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY..          19,376          19,376
   062   0603924D8Z                          HIGH ENERGY LASER ADVANCED                  85,223          85,223
                                              TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM.
   063   0603941D8Z                          TEST & EVALUATION SCIENCE &                175,574         185,574
                                              TECHNOLOGY.
         ..................................      Program increase to support                            [10,000]
                                                 NDS technologies.
   064   0603950D8Z                          NATIONAL SECURITY INNOVATION                25,000          25,000
                                              NETWORK.
   065   0604055D8Z                          OPERATIONAL ENERGY CAPABILITY               70,536          53,900
                                              IMPROVEMENT.
         ..................................      Excess growth.................                        [-16,636]
   066   0303310D8Z                          CWMD SYSTEMS......................          28,907          28,907
   068   1160402BB                           SOF ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY                     89,154          89,154
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
   069   1206310SDA                          SPACE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY                20,000          20,000
                                              RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY          3,742,088       3,673,462
                                                DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................
         ..................................  ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT AND
                                              PROTOTYPES
   070   0603161D8Z                          NUCLEAR AND CONVENTIONAL PHYSICAL           42,695          42,695
                                              SECURITY EQUIPMENT RDT&E; ADC&P.;
   071   0603600D8Z                          WALKOFF...........................          92,791          92,791
   072   0603821D8Z                          ACQUISITION ENTERPRISE DATA &                5,659           5,659
                                              INFORMATION SERVICES.
   073   0603851D8Z                          ENVIRONMENTAL SECURITY TECHNICAL            66,572          68,572
                                              CERTIFICATION PROGRAM.
         ..................................      ESTCP.........................                          [2,000]
   074   0603881C                            BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE TERMINAL         302,761         302,761
                                              DEFENSE SEGMENT.
   075   0603882C                            BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE                1,156,506       1,237,606
                                              MIDCOURSE DEFENSE SEGMENT.
         ..................................      Common booster engineering                            [-15,000]
                                                 early to need.
         ..................................      Homeland Defense Radar-Hawaii                         [-30,400]
                                                 delay.
         ..................................      RKV cancellation--on demand                           [-13,500]
                                                 communications.
         ..................................      RKV Program Termination--                             [140,000]
                                                 Trasfer from RD,DW 109 for
                                                 SLEP program.
   076   0603884BP                           CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE             83,662          83,662
                                              PROGRAM--DEM/VAL.
   077   0603884C                            BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE SENSORS.         283,487         283,487
   078   0603890C                            BMD ENABLING PROGRAMS.............         571,507         571,507
   079   0603891C                            SPECIAL PROGRAMS--MDA.............         377,098         512,098
         ..................................      Classified unfunded priority..                        [135,000]
   080   0603892C                            AEGIS BMD.........................         727,479         699,479
         ..................................      Unjustified growth............                        [-28,000]
   081   0603896C                            BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE COMMAND          564,206         562,706
                                              AND CONTROL, BATTLE MANAGEMENT
                                              AND COMMUNICATI.
         ..................................      IBCS integration delays.......                         [-1,500]
   082   0603898C                            BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE JOINT             51,532          51,532
                                              WARFIGHTER SUPPORT.
   083   0603904C                            MISSILE DEFENSE INTEGRATION &               56,161          56,161
                                              OPERATIONS CENTER (MDIOC).
   084   0603906C                            REGARDING TRENCH..................          22,424          22,424
   085   0603907C                            SEA BASED X-BAND RADAR (SBX)......         128,156         128,156
   086   0603913C                            ISRAELI COOPERATIVE PROGRAMS......         300,000         300,000
   087   0603914C                            BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE TEST....         395,924         395,924
   088   0603915C                            BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE TARGETS.         554,171         554,171
   089   0603920D8Z                          HUMANITARIAN DEMINING.............          10,820          14,700
         ..................................      Program increase..............                          [3,880]
   090   0603923D8Z                          COALITION WARFARE.................          11,316          11,316
   091   0604016D8Z                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CORROSION              3,365           3,365
                                              PROGRAM.
   092   0604115C                            TECHNOLOGY MATURATION INITIATIVES.         303,458         269,458
         ..................................      Cancel Neutral Particle Beam..                        [-34,000]
   093   0604132D8Z                          MISSILE DEFEAT PROJECT............          17,816          10,000
         ..................................      Unjustified budget request--                           [-7,816]
                                                 program transitioned to
                                                 services.
   095   0604181C                            HYPERSONIC DEFENSE................         157,425         157,425
   096   0604250D8Z                          ADVANCED INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGIES..       1,312,735       1,312,735
         ..................................      Hypervelocity Gun Weapon                               [80,000]
                                                 System.
         ..................................      Insufficient justification....                        [-80,000]
   097   0604294D8Z                          TRUSTED & ASSURED MICROELECTRONICS         542,421         547,421
         ..................................      Trusted and assured                                     [5,000]
                                                 microelectronics research.
   098   0604331D8Z                          RAPID PROTOTYPING PROGRAM.........         100,957          50,957
         ..................................      Uncoordinated prototyping                             [-50,000]
                                                 efforts.
   099   0604341D8Z                          DEFENSE INNOVATION UNIT (DIU)               92,000          92,000
                                              PROTOTYPING.
   100   0604400D8Z                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (DOD)                  3,021           3,021
                                              UNMANNED SYSTEM COMMON
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
   102   0604672C                            HOMELAND DEFENSE RADAR--HAWAII             274,714         173,598
                                              (HDR-H).
         ..................................      Funding acceleration early to                         [-60,000]
                                                 need.
         ..................................      Radar foundation and thermal                          [-41,116]
                                                 control system early to need.
   103   0604673C                            PACIFIC DISCRIMINATING RADAR......           6,711           6,711
   104   0604682D8Z                          WARGAMING AND SUPPORT FOR                    3,751           3,751
                                              STRATEGIC ANALYSIS (SSA).
   105   0604775BR                           DEFENSE RAPID INNOVATION PROGRAM..          14,021          14,021
   107   0604826J                            JOINT C5 CAPABILITY DEVELOPMENT,            20,062          20,062
                                              INTEGRATION AND INTEROPERABILITY
                                              ASSESSMENTS.
   108   0604873C                            LONG RANGE DISCRIMINATION RADAR            136,423         136,423
                                              (LRDR).
   109   0604874C                            IMPROVED HOMELAND DEFENSE                  412,363         272,363
                                              INTERCEPTORS.
         ..................................      RKV Termination - transfer to                        [-140,000]
                                                 RD,DW 075 for SLEP program.
   110   0604876C                            BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE TERMINAL          25,137          25,137
                                              DEFENSE SEGMENT TEST.
   111   0604878C                            AEGIS BMD TEST....................         169,822         169,822
   112   0604879C                            BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE SENSOR           105,530         105,530
                                              TEST.
   113   0604880C                            LAND-BASED SM-3 (LBSM3)...........          38,352          38,352
   115   0604887C                            BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE                   98,139          98,139
                                              MIDCOURSE SEGMENT TEST.
   117   0300206R                            ENTERPRISE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY            1,600           1,600
                                              SYSTEMS.
   118   0303191D8Z                          JOINT ELECTROMAGNETIC TECHNOLOGY             3,191           3,191
                                              (JET) PROGRAM.
   119   0305103C                            CYBER SECURITY INITIATIVE.........           1,138           1,138
   120   1206410SDA                          SPACE TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT AND            85,000          55,000
                                              PROTOTYPING.
         ..................................      Missile defense studies                               [-30,000]
                                                 realignment.
   121   1206893C                            SPACE TRACKING & SURVEILLANCE               35,849          35,849
                                              SYSTEM.
   122   1206895C                            BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEM            27,565         135,565
                                              SPACE PROGRAMS.
         ..................................      Hypersonic and Ballistic                              [108,000]
                                                 Tracking Space Sensor.
  122A   0604011D8Z                          NEXT GENERATION INFORMATION                                275,000
                                              COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (5G).
         ..................................      NTTR and additional AF                                [100,000]
                                                 installation 5G network.
         ..................................      Program increase..............                        [175,000]
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT           9,797,493      10,015,041
                                                DEVELOPMENT AND PROTOTYPES.
         ..................................
         ..................................  SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT AND
                                              DEMONSTRATION
   123   0604161D8Z                          NUCLEAR AND CONVENTIONAL PHYSICAL           11,276          11,276
                                              SECURITY EQUIPMENT RDT&E; SDD.
   124   0604165D8Z                          PROMPT GLOBAL STRIKE CAPABILITY            107,000          76,000
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................      Transfer to RDTE, Army Line                           [-31,000]
                                                 100.
   125   0604384BP                           CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE            384,047         374,047
                                              PROGRAM--EMD.
         ..................................      Excess growth.................                        [-10,000]
   126   0604771D8Z                          JOINT TACTICAL INFORMATION                  40,102          40,102
                                              DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM (JTIDS).
   127   0605000BR                           COUNTER WEAPONS OF MASS                     13,100          13,100
                                              DESTRUCTION SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT.
   128   0605013BL                           INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT           3,070           3,070
   129   0605021SE                           HOMELAND PERSONNEL SECURITY                  7,295           7,295
                                              INITIATIVE.
   130   0605022D8Z                          DEFENSE EXPORTABILITY PROGRAM.....          17,615          17,615
   131   0605027D8Z                          OUSD(C) IT DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES          15,653          15,653
   132   0605070S                            DOD ENTERPRISE SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT           2,378           2,378
                                              AND DEMONSTRATION.
   133   0605075D8Z                          CMO POLICY AND INTEGRATION........           1,618           1,618
   134   0605080S                            DEFENSE AGENCY INITIATIVES (DAI)--          27,944          27,944
                                              FINANCIAL SYSTEM.
   135   0605090S                            DEFENSE RETIRED AND ANNUITANT PAY            6,609           6,609
                                              SYSTEM (DRAS).
   136   0605210D8Z                          DEFENSE-WIDE ELECTRONIC                      9,619           9,619
                                              PROCUREMENT CAPABILITIES.
   137   0605294D8Z                          TRUSTED & ASSURED MICROELECTRONICS         175,032         175,032
   138   0303140BL                           INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY                   425             425
                                              PROGRAM.
   139   0303141K                            GLOBAL COMBAT SUPPORT SYSTEM......           1,578           1,578
   140   0305304D8Z                          DOD ENTERPRISE ENERGY INFORMATION            4,373           4,373
                                              MANAGEMENT (EEIM).
   141   0305310D8Z                          CWMD SYSTEMS: SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT            12,854          12,854
                                              AND DEMONSTRATION.
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT AND         841,588         800,588
                                                DEMONSTRATION.
         ..................................
         ..................................  MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
   142   0603829J                            JOINT CAPABILITY EXPERIMENTATION..          13,000          13,000
   143   0604774D8Z                          DEFENSE READINESS REPORTING SYSTEM           9,724           9,724
                                              (DRRS).
   144   0604875D8Z                          JOINT SYSTEMS ARCHITECTURE                   9,593           9,593
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
   145   0604940D8Z                          CENTRAL TEST AND EVALUATION                260,267         260,267
                                              INVESTMENT DEVELOPMENT (CTEIP).
   146   0604942D8Z                          ASSESSMENTS AND EVALUATIONS.......          30,834          30,834
   147   0605001E                            MISSION SUPPORT...................          68,498          68,498
   148   0605100D8Z                          JOINT MISSION ENVIRONMENT TEST              83,091          89,091
                                              CAPABILITY (JMETC).
         ..................................      Cyber range development.......                          [6,000]
   149   0605104D8Z                          TECHNICAL STUDIES, SUPPORT AND              18,079          18,079
                                              ANALYSIS.
   150   0605126J                            JOINT INTEGRATED AIR AND MISSILE            70,038          70,038
                                              DEFENSE ORGANIZATION (JIAMDO).
   152   0605142D8Z                          SYSTEMS ENGINEERING...............          37,140          37,140
   153   0605151D8Z                          STUDIES AND ANALYSIS SUPPORT--OSD.           4,759           4,759
   154   0605161D8Z                          NUCLEAR MATTERS-PHYSICAL SECURITY.           8,307           8,307
   155   0605170D8Z                          SUPPORT TO NETWORKS AND                      9,441           9,441
                                              INFORMATION INTEGRATION.
   156   0605200D8Z                          GENERAL SUPPORT TO USD                       1,700           1,700
                                              (INTELLIGENCE).
   157   0605384BP                           CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE            110,363         110,363
                                              PROGRAM.
   166   0605790D8Z                          SMALL BUSINESS INNOVATION RESEARCH           3,568           3,568
                                              (SBIR)/ SMALL BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY
                                              TRANSFER.
   167   0605797D8Z                          MAINTAINING TECHNOLOGY ADVANTAGE..          19,936          19,936
   168   0605798D8Z                          DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY ANALYSIS.......          16,875          19,875
         ..................................      National Science, Technology,                           [3,000]
                                                 and Security Roundtable with
                                                 Academia.
   169   0605801KA                           DEFENSE TECHNICAL INFORMATION               57,716          57,716
                                              CENTER (DTIC).
   170   0605803SE                           R&D; IN SUPPORT OF DOD ENLISTMENT,           34,448          34,448
                                              TESTING AND EVALUATION.
   171   0605804D8Z                          DEVELOPMENT TEST AND EVALUATION...          22,203          22,203
   172   0605898E                            MANAGEMENT HQ--R&D................;          13,208          13,208
   173   0605998KA                           MANAGEMENT HQ--DEFENSE TECHNICAL             3,027           3,027
                                              INFORMATION CENTER (DTIC).
   174   0606100D8Z                          BUDGET AND PROGRAM ASSESSMENTS....           8,017           8,017
   175   0606225D8Z                          ODNA TECHNOLOGY AND RESOURCE                 3,194           3,194
                                              ANALYSIS.
   176   0606589D8W                          DEFENSE DIGITAL SERVICE (DDS)                1,000           1,000
                                              DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT.
   179   0203345D8Z                          DEFENSE OPERATIONS SECURITY                  3,037           3,037
                                              INITIATIVE (DOSI).
   180   0204571J                            JOINT STAFF ANALYTICAL SUPPORT....           9,216           9,216
   183   0303166J                            SUPPORT TO INFORMATION OPERATIONS              553             553
                                              (IO) CAPABILITIES.
   184   0303260D8Z                          DEFENSE MILITARY DECEPTION PROGRAM           1,014           1,014
                                              OFFICE (DMDPO).
   185   0305172K                            COMBINED ADVANCED APPLICATIONS....          58,667          48,667
         ..................................      Unjustified growth............                        [-10,000]
   187   0305245D8Z                          INTELLIGENCE CAPABILITIES AND               21,081          21,081
                                              INNOVATION INVESTMENTS.
   189   0307588D8Z                          ALGORITHMIC WARFARE CROSS                  221,235         221,235
                                              FUNCTIONAL TEAMS.
   191   0804768J                            COCOM EXERCISE ENGAGEMENT AND               40,073          40,073
                                              TRAINING TRANSFORMATION (CE2T2)--
                                              NON-MHA.
   192   0808709SE                           DEFENSE EQUAL OPPORTUNITY                      100             100
                                              MANAGEMENT INSTITUTE (DEOMI).
   193   0901598C                            MANAGEMENT HQ--MDA................          27,065          27,065
   194   0903235K                            JOINT SERVICE PROVIDER (JSP)......           3,090           3,090
  194A   9999999999                          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...............          51,471          51,471
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT....       1,354,628       1,353,628
         ..................................
         ..................................  OPERATIONAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
         ..................................  UNDISTRIBUTED
   195   0604130V                            ENTERPRISE SECURITY SYSTEM (ESS)..           7,945           7,945
   196   0604532K                            JOINT ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE.....         208,834         208,834
   197   0605127T                            REGIONAL INTERNATIONAL OUTREACH              1,947           1,947
                                              (RIO) AND PARTNERSHIP FOR PEACE
                                              INFORMATION MANA.
   198   0605147T                            OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE               310             310
                                              SHARED INFORMATION SYSTEM
                                              (OHASIS).
   199   0607210D8Z                          INDUSTRIAL BASE ANALYSIS AND                10,051          18,551
                                              SUSTAINMENT SUPPORT.
         ..................................      Advanced systems manufacturing                          [5,000]
         ..................................      Rare earth element production.                          [3,500]
   200   0607310D8Z                          CWMD SYSTEMS: OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS           12,734          12,734
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
   201   0607327T                            GLOBAL THEATER SECURITY                     14,800          10,350
                                              COOPERATION MANAGEMENT
                                              INFORMATION SYSTEMS (G-TSCMIS).
         ..................................      Excess growth.................                         [-4,450]
   202   0607384BP                           CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE             54,023          54,023
                                              (OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT).
   203   0208043J                            PLANNING AND DECISION AID SYSTEM             4,537           4,537
                                              (PDAS).
   204   0208045K                            C4I INTEROPERABILITY..............          64,122          64,122
   210   0302019K                            DEFENSE INFO INFRASTRUCTURE                 15,798          15,798
                                              ENGINEERING AND INTEGRATION.
   211   0303126K                            LONG-HAUL COMMUNICATIONS--DCS.....          11,166          11,166
   212   0303131K                            MINIMUM ESSENTIAL EMERGENCY                 17,383          17,383
                                              COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK (MEECN).
   214   0303136G                            KEY MANAGEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE               54,516          54,516
                                              (KMI).
   215   0303140D8Z                          INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY                67,631          92,631
                                              PROGRAM.
         ..................................      AI and Cyber Center of                                 [25,000]
                                                 Excellence.
   216   0303140G                            INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY               289,080         287,198
                                              PROGRAM.
         ..................................      Realignment to DISA for                                [-1,882]
                                                 Sharkseer.
   217   0303140K                            INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY                42,796          44,678
                                              PROGRAM.
         ..................................      Realignment for Sharkseer.....                          [1,882]
   218   0303150K                            GLOBAL COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM.          25,218          25,218
   219   0303153K                            DEFENSE SPECTRUM ORGANIZATION.....          21,698          21,698
   220   0303228K                            JOINT REGIONAL SECURITY STACKS              18,077          18,077
                                              (JRSS).
   222   0303430K                            FEDERAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES              44,001          44,001
                                              INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY.
   228   0305128V                            SECURITY AND INVESTIGATIVE                   2,400           2,400
                                              ACTIVITIES.
   232   0305186D8Z                          POLICY R&D; PROGRAMS...............           6,301           6,301
   233   0305199D8Z                          NET CENTRICITY....................          21,384          21,384
   235   0305208BB                           DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND/SURFACE            6,359           6,359
                                              SYSTEMS.
   238   0305208K                            DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND/SURFACE            2,981           2,981
                                              SYSTEMS.
   241   0305327V                            INSIDER THREAT....................           1,964           1,964
   242   0305387D8Z                          HOMELAND DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY                  2,221           2,221
                                              TRANSFER PROGRAM.
   250   0708012K                            LOGISTICS SUPPORT ACTIVITIES......           1,361           1,361
   251   0708012S                            PACIFIC DISASTER CENTERS..........           1,770           1,770
   252   0708047S                            DEFENSE PROPERTY ACCOUNTABILITY              3,679           3,679
                                              SYSTEM.
   254   1105219BB                           MQ-9 UAV..........................          20,697          20,697
   256   1160403BB                           AVIATION SYSTEMS..................         245,795         262,995
         ..................................      Program increase--Future                                [8,800]
                                                 Vertical Lift.
         ..................................      UPL FVL realignment from RFCM.                          [8,400]
   257   1160405BB                           INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT..          15,484          15,484
   258   1160408BB                           OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS..........         166,922         166,922
   259   1160431BB                           WARRIOR SYSTEMS...................          62,332          62,332
   260   1160432BB                           SPECIAL PROGRAMS..................          21,805          21,805
   261   1160434BB                           UNMANNED ISR......................          37,377          37,377
   262   1160480BB                           SOF TACTICAL VEHICLES.............          11,150          11,150
   263   1160483BB                           MARITIME SYSTEMS..................          72,626          72,626
   264   1160489BB                           GLOBAL VIDEO SURVEILLANCE                    5,363           5,363
                                              ACTIVITIES.
   265   1160490BB                           OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS                    12,962          12,962
                                              INTELLIGENCE.
   266   1203610K                            TELEPORT PROGRAM..................           6,158           6,158
  266A   9999999999                          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...............       4,542,640       4,542,640
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEM           6,258,398       6,304,648
                                                DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED.........                          46,250
         ..................................
         ..................................       TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT,       24,772,953      24,971,825
                                                  TEST & EVAL, DW.
         ..................................
         ..................................  OPERATIONAL TEST & EVAL, DEFENSE
         ..................................  MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
   001   0605118OTE                          OPERATIONAL TEST AND EVALUATION...          93,291          93,291
   002   0605131OTE                          LIVE FIRE TEST AND EVALUATION.....          69,172          69,172
   003   0605814OTE                          OPERATIONAL TEST ACTIVITIES AND             58,737          58,737
                                              ANALYSES.
         ..................................     SUBTOTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT....         221,200         221,200
         ..................................
         ..................................       TOTAL OPERATIONAL TEST &              221,200         221,200
                                                  EVAL, DEFENSE.
         ..................................
         ..................................       TOTAL RDT&E..................;     103,395,545     102,309,846
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4202. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION FOR OVERSEAS 
CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
   SEC. 4202. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION FOR OVERSEAS
            CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               FY 2020      Conference
  Line    Program Element        Item          Request      Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         ................  RESEARCH,
                            DEVELOPMENT,
                            TEST & EVAL,
                            ARMY
         ................  ADVANCED
                            COMPONENT
                            DEVELOPMENT &
                            PROTOTYPES
   074   0603327A          AIR AND MISSILE           500            500
                            DEFENSE SYSTEMS
                            ENGINEERING.
   079   0603747A          SOLDIER SUPPORT         3,000          3,000
                            AND
                            SURVIVABILITY.
   085   0603804A          LOGISTICS AND           1,085          1,085
                            ENGINEER
                            EQUIPMENT--ADV
                            DEV.
   095   0604117A          MANEUVER--SHORT         6,000              0
                            RANGE AIR
                            DEFENSE (M-
                            SHORAD).
         ................      Unjustified                      [-6,000]
                               request.
   097   0604119A          ARMY ADVANCED           4,529          4,529
                            COMPONENT
                            DEVELOPMENT &
                            PROTOTYPING.
   105   0604785A          INTEGRATED BASE         2,000          2,000
                            DEFENSE (BUDGET
                            ACTIVITY 4).
         ................  SUBTOTAL               17,114         17,114
                            ADVANCED
                            COMPONENT
                            DEVELOPMENT &
                            PROTOTYPES.
         ................
         ................  SYSTEM
                            DEVELOPMENT &
                            DEMONSTRATION
   151   0605035A          COMMON INFRARED        11,770         11,770
                            COUNTERMEASURES
                            (CIRCM).
   159   0605051A          AIRCRAFT               77,420         77,420
                            SURVIVABILITY
                            DEVELOPMENT.
   163   0605203A          ARMY SYSTEM            19,527         19,527
                            DEVELOPMENT &
                            DEMONSTRATION.
   174   0304270A          ELECTRONIC              3,200          3,200
                            WARFARE
                            DEVELOPMENT.
         ................  SUBTOTAL SYSTEM       111,917        111,917
                            DEVELOPMENT &
                            DEMONSTRATION.
         ................
         ................  RDT&E; MANAGEMENT
                            SUPPORT
   200   0606003A          COUNTERINTEL AND        1,875          1,875
                            HUMAN INTEL
                            MODERNIZATION.
         ................  SUBTOTAL RDT&E;          1,875          1,875
                            MANAGEMENT
                            SUPPORT.
         ................
         ................  OPERATIONAL
                            SYSTEMS
                            DEVELOPMENT
         ................  UNDISTRIBUTED
   238   0303028A          SECURITY AND           22,904         22,904
                            INTELLIGENCE
                            ACTIVITIES.
   246   0305204A          TACTICAL               34,100         34,100
                            UNMANNED AERIAL
                            VEHICLES.
   247   0305206A          AIRBORNE               14,000         14,000
                            RECONNAISSANCE
                            SYSTEMS.
   252   0307665A          BIOMETRICS              2,214          2,214
                            ENABLED
                            INTELLIGENCE.
         ................  SUBTOTAL               73,218         73,218
                            OPERATIONAL
                            SYSTEMS
                            DEVELOPMENT.
         ................
         ................  TOTAL RESEARCH,       204,124        198,124
                            DEVELOPMENT,
                            TEST & EVAL,
                            ARMY.
         ................
         ................  RESEARCH,
                            DEVELOPMENT,
                            TEST & EVAL,
                            NAVY
         ................  ADVANCED
                            COMPONENT
                            DEVELOPMENT &
                            PROTOTYPES
   028   0603207N          AIR/OCEAN               2,400          2,400
                            TACTICAL
                            APPLICATIONS.
   038   0603527N          RETRACT LARCH...       22,000         22,000
   057   0603654N          JOINT SERVICE          14,178         14,178
                            EXPLOSIVE
                            ORDNANCE
                            DEVELOPMENT.
   069   0603795N          LAND ATTACK             1,428          1,428
                            TECHNOLOGY.
         ................  SUBTOTAL               40,006         40,006
                            ADVANCED
                            COMPONENT
                            DEVELOPMENT &
                            PROTOTYPES.
         ................
         ................  SYSTEM
                            DEVELOPMENT &
                            DEMONSTRATION
   143   0604755N          SHIP SELF               1,122          1,122
                            DEFENSE (DETECT
                            & CONTROL).
         ................  SUBTOTAL SYSTEM         1,122          1,122
                            DEVELOPMENT &
                            DEMONSTRATION.
         ................
         ................  OPERATIONAL
                            SYSTEMS
                            DEVELOPMENT
         ................  UNDISTRIBUTED
   228   0206313M          MARINE CORPS           15,000         15,000
                            COMMUNICATIONS
                            SYSTEMS.
  259A   9999999999        CLASSIFIED            108,282        108,282
                            PROGRAMS.
         ................  SUBTOTAL              123,282        123,282
                            OPERATIONAL
                            SYSTEMS
                            DEVELOPMENT.
         ................
         ................  TOTAL RESEARCH,       164,410        164,410
                            DEVELOPMENT,
                            TEST & EVAL,
                            NAVY.
         ................
         ................  RESEARCH,
                            DEVELOPMENT,
                            TEST & EVAL, AF
         ................  ADVANCED
                            COMPONENT
                            DEVELOPMENT &
                            PROTOTYPES
   048   0604858F          TECH TRANSITION        26,450         26,450
                            PROGRAM.
   072   1206857F          SPACE RAPID            17,885         17,885
                            CAPABILITIES
                            OFFICE.
         ................  SUBTOTAL               44,335         44,335
                            ADVANCED
                            COMPONENT
                            DEVELOPMENT &
                            PROTOTYPES.
         ................
         ................  OPERATIONAL
                            SYSTEMS
                            DEVELOPMENT
         ................  UNDISTRIBUTED
   177   0205671F          JOINT COUNTER           4,000          4,000
                            RCIED
                            ELECTRONIC
                            WARFARE.
   217   0208288F          INTEL DATA              1,200          1,200
                            APPLICATIONS.
  311A   9999999999        CLASSIFIED             78,713         78,713
                            PROGRAMS.
         ................  SUBTOTAL               83,913         83,913
                            OPERATIONAL
                            SYSTEMS
                            DEVELOPMENT.
         ................
         ................  TOTAL RESEARCH,       128,248        128,248
                            DEVELOPMENT,
                            TEST & EVAL, AF.
         ................
         ................  RESEARCH,
                            DEVELOPMENT,
                            TEST & EVAL, DW
         ................  APPLIED RESEARCH
   010   0602134BR         COUNTER                 1,677          1,677
                            IMPROVISED-
                            THREAT ADVANCED
                            STUDIES.
         ................  SUBTOTAL APPLIED        1,677          1,677
                            RESEARCH.
         ................
         ................  ADVANCED
                            TECHNOLOGY
                            DEVELOPMENT
   025   0603122D8Z        COMBATING              25,230         25,230
                            TERRORISM
                            TECHNOLOGY
                            SUPPORT.
   027   0603134BR         COUNTER                49,528         49,528
                            IMPROVISED-
                            THREAT
                            SIMULATION.
         ................  SUBTOTAL               74,758         74,758
                            ADVANCED
                            TECHNOLOGY
                            DEVELOPMENT.
         ................
         ................  ADVANCED
                            COMPONENT
                            DEVELOPMENT AND
                            PROTOTYPES
   094   0604134BR         COUNTER               113,590        113,590
                            IMPROVISED-
                            THREAT
                            DEMONSTRATION,
                            PROTOTYPE
                            DEVELOPMENT,
                            AND TESTING.
         ................  SUBTOTAL              113,590        113,590
                            ADVANCED
                            COMPONENT
                            DEVELOPMENT AND
                            PROTOTYPES.
         ................
         ................  OPERATIONAL
                            SYSTEM
                            DEVELOPMENT
         ................  UNDISTRIBUTED
   258   1160408BB         OPERATIONAL               726            726
                            ENHANCEMENTS.
   259   1160431BB         WARRIOR SYSTEMS.        6,000          6,000
   261   1160434BB         UNMANNED ISR....        5,000          5,000
  266A   9999999999        CLASSIFIED            200,199        200,199
                            PROGRAMS.
         ................  SUBTOTAL              211,925        211,925
                            OPERATIONAL
                            SYSTEM
                            DEVELOPMENT.
         ................
         ................  TOTAL RESEARCH,       401,950        401,950
                            DEVELOPMENT,
                            TEST & EVAL, DW.
         ................
         ................  TOTAL RDT&E.....;      898,732        892,732
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4203. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION FOR EMERGENCY 
REQUIREMENTS.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
  SEC. 4203. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION FOR EMERGENCY
                 REQUIREMENTS (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               FY 2020      Conference
  Line    Program Element        Item          Request      Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         ................  RESEARCH,
                            DEVELOPMENT,
                            TEST & EVAL,
                            NAVY
         ................  MANAGEMENT
                            SUPPORT
   187   0605864N          TEST AND                    0        129,000
                            EVALUATION
                            SUPPORT.
         ................      Earthquake                      [129,000]
                               damage
                               recovery.
         ................  TOTAL RESEARCH,             0        129,000
                            DEVELOPMENT,
                            TEST & EVAL,
                            NAVY.
         ................
         ................  RESEARCH,
                            DEVELOPMENT,
                            TEST & EVAL, AF
         ................  MANAGEMENT
                            SUPPORT
   128   0605807F          TEST AND                    0         14,436
                            EVALUATION
                            SUPPORT.
         ................      Earthquake                       [14,436]
                               damage
                               recovery.
   138   0605976F          FACILITIES                  0          1,060
                            RESTORATION AND
                            MODERNIZATION--
                            TEST AND
                            EVALUATION
                            SUPPORT.
         ................      Earthquake                        [1,060]
                               damage
                               recovery.
         ................  TOTAL RESEARCH,             0         15,496
                            DEVELOPMENT,
                            TEST & EVAL, AF.
         ................
         ................  TOTAL RDT&E.....;            0        144,496
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                 TITLE XLIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

Sec. 4301. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 4302. Operation and maintenance for overseas contingency 
          operations.
Sec. 4303. Operation and maintenance for emergency requirements.
SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
     SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             FY 2020        Conference
  Line                Item                   Request        Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MANEUVER UNITS................       1,735,922       1,398,674
             Realignment to OCO........                       [-260,548]
             Unjustified growth........                        [-76,700]
   020   MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES......         127,815         124,665
             Unjustified growth........                         [-3,150]
   030   ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE........         716,356         709,356
             Unjustified growth........                         [-7,000]
   040   THEATER LEVEL ASSETS..........         890,891         878,891
             Unjustified growth........                        [-12,000]
   050   LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT       1,232,477       1,222,977
             Unjustified growth........                         [-9,500]
   060   AVIATION ASSETS...............       1,355,606       1,269,106
             Excess to need............                        [-86,500]
   070   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS           3,882,315       2,664,315
          SUPPORT......................
             Female personal protective                          [2,000]
             equipment.................
             Realignment to OCO........                     [-1,100,000]
             Unjustified growth........                       [-120,000]
   080   LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS.         417,069         446,269
             UPL MDTF INDOPACOM........                         [29,200]
   090   LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE.       1,633,327       1,608,327
             Unjustified growth........                        [-25,000]
   100   BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......       8,047,933       8,002,933
             Unjustified growth........                        [-45,000]
   110   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,              4,326,840       4,326,840
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
   120   MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL             405,612         405,612
          HEADQUARTERS.................
   160   US AFRICA COMMAND.............         251,511         243,011
             Unjustified growth........                         [-8,500]
   170   US EUROPEAN COMMAND...........         146,358         146,358
         ..............................
   180   US SOUTHERN COMMAND...........         191,840         209,840
             Multi-Mission Support                              [18,000]
             Vessel....................
   190   US FORCES KOREA...............          57,603          57,603
   200   CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--                423,156         423,156
          CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS........
   210   CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--                551,185         551,185
          CYBERSECURITY................
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.      26,393,816      24,689,118
 
         MOBILIZATION
   220   STRATEGIC MOBILITY............         380,577         380,577
   230   ARMY PREPOSITIONED STOCKS.....         362,942         362,942
   240   INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS.......           4,637           5,637
             Advanced Manufacturing COE                          [1,000]
             Tech Roadmapping..........
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION.....         748,156         749,156
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   250   OFFICER ACQUISITION...........         157,175         157,175
   260   RECRUIT TRAINING..............          55,739          55,739
   270   ONE STATION UNIT TRAINING.....          62,300          62,300
   280   SENIOR RESERVE OFFICERS                538,357         538,357
          TRAINING CORPS...............
   290   SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING....         969,813         969,813
   300   FLIGHT TRAINING...............       1,234,049       1,234,049
   310   PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT               218,338         218,338
          EDUCATION....................
   320   TRAINING SUPPORT..............         554,659         552,659
             Excess travel request.....                         [-2,000]
   330   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....         716,056         706,056
             Unjustified growth for                            [-10,000]
             recruiting................
   340   EXAMINING.....................         185,034         185,034
   350   OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY                 214,275         214,275
          EDUCATION....................
   360   CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND                 147,647         147,647
          TRAINING.....................
   370   JUNIOR RESERVE OFFICER                 173,812         173,812
          TRAINING CORPS...............
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND            5,227,254       5,215,254
             RECRUITING................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
   390   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....         559,229         559,229
   400   CENTRAL SUPPLY ACTIVITIES.....         929,944         928,944
             Excess personnel..........                         [-1,000]
   410   LOGISTIC SUPPORT ACTIVITIES...         629,981         629,981
   420   AMMUNITION MANAGEMENT.........         458,771         451,771
             Unjustified growth........                         [-7,000]
   430   ADMINISTRATION................         428,768         418,768
             Unjustified growth........                        [-10,000]
   440   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS....       1,512,736       1,472,736
             Program decrease                                  [-40,000]
             unaccounted for...........
   450   MANPOWER MANAGEMENT...........         272,738         272,738
   460   OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT.......         391,869         361,869
             Unjustified growth........                        [-30,000]
   470   OTHER SERVICE SUPPORT.........       1,901,165       1,881,165
             Unjustified headquarters                          [-20,000]
             growth....................
   480   ARMY CLAIMS ACTIVITIES........         198,765         191,265
             Historical underexecution.                         [-7,500]
   490   REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT........         226,248         226,248
   500   FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND AUDIT         315,489         292,489
          READINESS....................
             Program decrease                                  [-23,000]
             unaccounted for...........
   510   INTERNATIONAL MILITARY                 427,254         427,254
          HEADQUARTERS.................
   520   MISC. SUPPORT OF OTHER NATIONS          43,248          43,248
   565   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........       1,347,053       1,347,053
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE         9,643,258       9,504,758
             ACTIVITIES................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &              42,012,484      40,158,286
              MAINTENANCE, ARMY........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
          RES
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES......          11,927          11,927
   020   ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE........         533,015         533,015
   030   THEATER LEVEL ASSETS..........         119,517         118,101
             Insufficient justification                         [-1,416]
   040   LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT         550,468         543,468
             Insufficient justification                         [-7,000]
   050   AVIATION ASSETS...............          86,670          85,170
             Unjustified growth........                         [-1,500]
   060   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS             390,061         388,661
          SUPPORT......................
             Excess civilian increase..                         [-1,400]
   070   LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS.         101,890         101,890
   080   LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE.          48,503          48,503
   090   BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......         598,907         594,707
             Insufficient justification                         [-4,200]
   100   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                444,376         444,376
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
   110   MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL              22,095          22,095
          HEADQUARTERS.................
   120   CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--                  3,288           3,288
          CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS........
   130   CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--                  7,655           7,655
          CYBERSECURITY................
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       2,918,372       2,902,856
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   140   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....          14,533          14,533
   150   ADMINISTRATION................          17,231          17,231
   160   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS....          14,304          14,304
   170   MANPOWER MANAGEMENT...........           6,129           6,129
   180   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....          58,541          58,541
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD             110,738         110,738
             ACTIVITIES................
   200   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                         -25,000
             Overestimation of civilian                        [-25,000]
             FTE targets...............
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                         -25,000
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               3,029,110       2,988,594
              MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES....
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   010   MANEUVER UNITS................         805,671         775,671
             Excess growth.............                        [-30,000]
   020   MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES......         195,334         193,334
             Excess growth.............                         [-2,000]
   030   ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE........         771,048         770,548
             Excess growth.............                           [-500]
   040   THEATER LEVEL ASSETS..........          94,726          94,226
             Excess growth.............                           [-500]
   050   LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT          33,696          35,185
             Program increase--advanced                          [1,489]
             trauma training program...
   060   AVIATION ASSETS...............         981,819         973,819
             Insufficient justification                         [-8,000]
   070   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS             743,206         743,206
          SUPPORT......................
   080   LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS.          50,963          50,963
   090   LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE.         258,278         254,028
             Insufficient justification                         [-4,250]
   100   BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......       1,153,076       1,133,076
             Insufficient justification                        [-20,000]
   110   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,              1,113,475       1,113,475
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
   120   MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL           1,001,042         987,042
          HEADQUARTERS.................
             Insufficient justification                        [-14,000]
   130   CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--                  8,448           8,448
          CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS........
   140   CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--                  7,768           7,768
          CYBERSECURITY................
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       7,218,550       7,140,789
   210   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                         -20,000
             Overestimation of civilian                        [-20,000]
             FTE targets...............
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                         -20,000
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   150   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....           9,890           9,890
   160   ADMINISTRATION................          71,070          71,070
   170   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS....          68,213          62,213
             Program decrease                                   [-6,000]
             unaccounted for...........
   180   MANPOWER MANAGEMENT...........           8,628           8,628
   190   OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT.......         250,376         250,376
   200   REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT........           2,676           2,676
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD             410,853         404,853
             ACTIVITIES................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               7,629,403       7,525,642
              MAINTENANCE, ARNG........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT             5,309,109       4,659,109
          OPERATIONS...................
             Projected underexecution..                        [-50,000]
             Realignment to OCO........                       [-600,000]
   020   FLEET AIR TRAINING............       2,284,828       2,249,828
             Projected underexecution..                        [-35,000]
   030   AVIATION TECHNICAL DATA &               59,299          59,299
          ENGINEERING SERVICES.........
   040   AIR OPERATIONS AND SAFETY              155,896         155,896
          SUPPORT......................
   050   AIR SYSTEMS SUPPORT...........         719,107         719,107
   060   AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE....       1,154,181       1,154,181
   070   AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS               60,402          59,202
          SUPPORT......................
             Excess growth.............                         [-1,200]
   080   AVIATION LOGISTICS............       1,241,421       1,219,421
             Projected underexecution..                        [-22,000]
   090   MISSION AND OTHER SHIP               4,097,262       3,547,262
          OPERATIONS...................
             Realignment to OCO........                       [-450,000]
             Unjustified growth........                       [-100,000]
   100   SHIP OPERATIONS SUPPORT &            1,031,792       1,029,792
          TRAINING.....................
             Excess civilian growth....                         [-2,000]
   110   SHIP DEPOT MAINTENANCE........       8,061,298       8,714,298
             Program increase..........                        [653,000]
   120   SHIP DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT.       2,073,641       2,066,141
             Insufficient justification                         [-7,500]
   130   COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS AND            1,378,856       1,364,856
          ELECTRONIC WARFARE...........
             Unjustified growth........                        [-14,000]
   140   SPACE SYSTEMS AND SURVEILLANCE         276,245         273,745
             Unjustified growth........                         [-2,500]
   150   WARFARE TACTICS...............         675,209         675,209
   160   OPERATIONAL METEOROLOGY AND            389,516         389,516
          OCEANOGRAPHY.................
   170   COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES.........       1,536,310       1,126,310
             Realignment to OCO........                       [-400,000]
             Unjustified growth........                        [-10,000]
   180   EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND              161,579         161,579
          DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT.....
   190   COMBATANT COMMANDERS CORE               59,521          59,521
          OPERATIONS...................
   200   COMBATANT COMMANDERS DIRECT             93,978          98,978
          MISSION SUPPORT..............
             Posture site assessments                            [5,000]
             INDOPACOM.................
   210   MILITARY INFORMATION SUPPORT             8,641           8,641
          OPERATIONS...................
   220   CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES.........         496,385         496,385
   230   FLEET BALLISTIC MISSILE.......       1,423,339       1,423,339
   240   WEAPONS MAINTENANCE...........         924,069         895,032
             Insufficient justification                        [-29,037]
   250   OTHER WEAPON SYSTEMS SUPPORT..         540,210         540,210
   260   ENTERPRISE INFORMATION........       1,131,627       1,111,627
             Unjustified growth........                        [-20,000]
   270   SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND         3,029,634       3,029,634
          MODERNIZATION................
   280   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT........       4,414,943       4,414,943
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.      42,788,298      41,703,061
 
         MOBILIZATION
   290   SHIP PREPOSITIONING AND SURGE.         942,902         942,902
   300   READY RESERVE FORCE...........         352,044         352,044
   310   SHIP ACTIVATIONS/INACTIVATIONS         427,555         427,555
   320   EXPEDITIONARY HEALTH SERVICES          137,597         137,597
          SYSTEMS......................
   330   COAST GUARD SUPPORT...........          24,604          24,604
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION.....       1,884,702       1,884,702
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   340   OFFICER ACQUISITION...........         150,765         150,765
   350   RECRUIT TRAINING..............          11,584          11,584
   360   RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING              159,133         159,133
          CORPS........................
   370   SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING....         911,316         891,316
             Insufficient justification                        [-20,000]
   380   PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT               185,211         186,261
          EDUCATION....................
             Program increase: Sea                               [1,050]
             Cadets....................
   390   TRAINING SUPPORT..............         267,224         267,224
   400   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....         209,252         204,252
             Insufficient justification                         [-5,000]
   410   OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY                  88,902          88,902
          EDUCATION....................
   420   CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND                  67,492          67,492
          TRAINING.....................
   430   JUNIOR ROTC...................          55,164          55,164
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND            2,106,043       2,082,093
             RECRUITING................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   440   ADMINISTRATION................       1,143,358       1,103,358
             Unjustified growth........                        [-40,000]
   450   CIVILIAN MANPOWER AND                  178,342         175,342
          PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT.........
             Excess civilian growth....                         [-3,000]
   460   MILITARY MANPOWER AND                  418,413         418,413
          PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT.........
   490   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....         157,465         157,465
   510   PLANNING, ENGINEERING, AND             485,397         490,397
          PROGRAM SUPPORT..............
             REPO......................                          [5,000]
   520   ACQUISITION, LOGISTICS, AND            654,137         647,137
          OVERSIGHT....................
             Unjustified growth........                         [-7,000]
   530   INVESTIGATIVE AND SECURITY             718,061         718,061
          SERVICES.....................
   645   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........         591,535         591,535
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD           4,346,708       4,301,708
             ACTIVITIES................
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   650   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                         -20,000
             Overestimation of civilian                        [-20,000]
             FTE targets...............
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                         -20,000
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &              51,125,751      49,951,564
              MAINTENANCE, NAVY........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,
          MARINE CORPS
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   OPERATIONAL FORCES............         968,224         727,224
             Excess civilian growth....                         [-1,000]
             Realignment to OCO........                       [-200,000]
             Unjustified growth........                        [-40,000]
   020   FIELD LOGISTICS...............       1,278,533       1,064,533
             Realignment to OCO........                       [-200,000]
             Unjustified growth........                        [-14,000]
   030   DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............         232,991         232,991
   040   MARITIME PREPOSITIONING.......         100,396         100,396
   050   CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES.........         203,580         203,580
   060   SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION &           1,559,034       1,559,034
          MODERNIZATION................
   070   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT........       2,253,776       2,223,776
             Unjustified growth........                        [-30,000]
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       6,596,534       6,111,534
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   080   RECRUIT TRAINING..............          21,240          21,240
   090   OFFICER ACQUISITION...........           1,168           1,168
   100   SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING....         106,601         106,601
   110   PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT                49,095          49,095
          EDUCATION....................
   120   TRAINING SUPPORT..............         407,315         407,315
   130   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....         210,475         210,475
   140   OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY                  42,810          42,810
          EDUCATION....................
   150   JUNIOR ROTC...................          25,183          25,183
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND              863,887         863,887
             RECRUITING................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   160   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....          29,894          29,894
   170   ADMINISTRATION................         384,352         384,352
   225   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........          52,057          52,057
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD             466,303         466,303
             ACTIVITIES................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               7,926,724       7,441,724
              MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
          RES
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT               654,220         629,220
          OPERATIONS...................
             Unjustified growth........                        [-25,000]
   020   INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE......           8,767           8,767
   030   AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE....         108,236         108,236
   040   AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS                  463             463
          SUPPORT......................
   050   AVIATION LOGISTICS............          26,014          26,014
   060   SHIP OPERATIONS SUPPORT &                  583             583
          TRAINING.....................
   070   COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS.........          17,883          17,883
   080   COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES.........         128,079         128,079
   090   CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES.........             356             356
   100   ENTERPRISE INFORMATION........          26,133          26,133
   110   SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND            35,397          35,397
          MODERNIZATION................
   120   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT........         101,376         101,376
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       1,107,507       1,082,507
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   130   ADMINISTRATION................           1,888           1,888
   140   MILITARY MANPOWER AND                   12,778          12,778
          PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT.........
   150   ACQUISITION AND PROGRAM                  2,943           2,943
          MANAGEMENT...................
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD              17,609          17,609
             ACTIVITIES................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               1,125,116       1,100,116
              MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES....
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC
          RESERVE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   OPERATING FORCES..............         106,484         106,484
   020   DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............          18,429          18,429
   030   SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND            47,516          47,516
          MODERNIZATION................
   040   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT........         106,073         106,073
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.         278,502         278,502
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   050   ADMINISTRATION................          13,574          13,574
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD              13,574          13,574
             ACTIVITIES................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                 292,076         292,076
              MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE..
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR
          FORCE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES.........         729,127         729,127
   020   COMBAT ENHANCEMENT FORCES.....       1,318,770         918,770
             Realignment to OCO........                       [-400,000]
   030   AIR OPERATIONS TRAINING (OJT,        1,486,790       1,446,790
          MAINTAIN SKILLS).............
             Unjustified growth........                        [-40,000]
   040   DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT             3,334,792       3,299,792
          MAINTENANCE..................
             Unjustified growth........                        [-35,000]
   050   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,              4,142,435       4,142,435
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
   060   CYBERSPACE SUSTAINMENT........         228,811         228,811
   070   CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT         8,329,364       8,347,364
          AND SYSTEM SUPPORT...........
             Expansion of Conditions                            [18,000]
             Based Maintenance Plus
             (CBM+)....................
   080   FLYING HOUR PROGRAM...........       4,048,773       3,418,773
             Realignment to OCO........                       [-550,000]
             Unjustified growth........                        [-80,000]
   090   BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......       7,223,982       6,933,982
             Insufficient justification                        [-90,000]
             Realignment to OCO........                       [-200,000]
   100   GLOBAL C3I AND EARLY WARNING..         964,553         964,553
   110   OTHER COMBAT OPS SPT PROGRAMS.       1,032,307       1,026,161
             Unjustified growth........                         [-6,146]
   120   CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES.........         670,076         670,076
   140   LAUNCH FACILITIES.............         179,980         179,980
   150   SPACE CONTROL SYSTEMS.........         467,990         464,390
             Insufficient justification                         [-3,600]
   160   US NORTHCOM/NORAD.............         184,655         184,655
   170   US STRATCOM...................         478,357         478,357
   180   US CYBERCOM...................         323,121         347,921
             Accelerate development of                           [1,500]
             Cyber National Mission
             Force capabilities........
             Cyber National Mission                              [5,300]
             Force mobile & modular
             hunt forward kit..........
             ETERNALDARKNESS...........                         [18,000]
   190   US CENTCOM....................         160,989         160,989
   200   US SOCOM......................           6,225           6,225
   210   US TRANSCOM...................             544             544
   220   CENTCOM CYBERSPACE SUSTAINMENT           2,073           2,073
   230   USSPACECOM....................          70,588          70,588
   235   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........       1,322,944       1,316,694
             Unjustified increase......                         [-6,250]
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.      36,707,246      35,339,050
 
         MOBILIZATION
   240   AIRLIFT OPERATIONS............       1,158,142       1,158,142
   250   MOBILIZATION PREPAREDNESS.....         138,672         130,172
             Unjustified growth........                         [-8,500]
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION.....       1,296,814       1,288,314
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   260   OFFICER ACQUISITION...........         130,835         130,835
   270   RECRUIT TRAINING..............          26,021          26,021
   280   RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING              121,391         121,391
          CORPS (ROTC).................
   290   SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING....         454,539         414,539
             Unjustified growth........                        [-40,000]
   300   FLIGHT TRAINING...............         600,565         600,565
   310   PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT               282,788         282,788
          EDUCATION....................
   320   TRAINING SUPPORT..............         123,988         113,988
             Unjustified growth........                        [-10,000]
   330   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....         167,731         162,731
             Unjustified growth........                         [-5,000]
   340   EXAMINING.....................           4,576           4,576
   350   OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY                 211,911         211,911
          EDUCATION....................
   360   CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND                 219,021         219,021
          TRAINING.....................
   370   JUNIOR ROTC...................          62,092          62,092
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND            2,405,458       2,350,458
             RECRUITING................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   380   LOGISTICS OPERATIONS..........         664,926         664,926
   390   TECHNICAL SUPPORT ACTIVITIES..         101,483         101,483
   400   ADMINISTRATION................         892,480         892,480
   410   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS....         152,532         122,532
             Insufficient justification                        [-30,000]
   420   OTHER SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES..       1,254,089       1,204,089
             Program decrease                                  [-20,000]
             unaccounted for...........
             Remove one-time fiscal                            [-30,000]
             year 2019 increase........
   430   CIVIL AIR PATROL..............          30,070          37,200
             Improved emergency crew                             [7,130]
             readiness.................
   460   INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT.........         136,110         136,110
   465   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........       1,269,624       1,269,624
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD           4,501,314       4,428,444
             ACTIVITIES................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &              44,910,832      43,406,266
              MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE...
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, SPACE
          FORCE
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   010   BASE SUPPORT..................          72,436          72,436
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.          72,436          72,436
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                  72,436          72,436
              MAINTENANCE, SPACE FORCE.
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF
          RESERVE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES.........       1,781,413       1,756,413
             Delay in KC-46 aircraft                           [-25,000]
             delivery..................
   020   MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS....         209,650         204,150
             Unjustified growth........                         [-5,500]
   030   DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT               494,235         484,235
          MAINTENANCE..................
             Excess growth.............                        [-10,000]
   040   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                128,746         128,746
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
   050   CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT           256,512         256,512
          AND SYSTEM SUPPORT...........
   060   BASE SUPPORT..................         414,626         414,626
   070   CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES.........           1,673           1,673
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       3,286,855       3,246,355
 
         ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICEWIDE
          ACTIVITIES
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   080   ADMINISTRATION................          69,436          69,436
   090   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....          22,124          22,124
   100   MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERS              10,946          10,946
          MGMT (ARPC)..................
   110   OTHER PERS SUPPORT (DISABILITY           7,009           7,009
          COMP)........................
   120   AUDIOVISUAL...................             448             448
             SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION            109,963         109,963
             AND SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               3,396,818       3,356,318
              MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE..
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS...........       2,497,967       2,472,967
             Delay in KC-46 aircraft                           [-25,000]
             delivery..................
   020   MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS....         600,377         585,377
             Insufficient justification                        [-15,000]
   030   DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT               879,467         879,467
          MAINTENANCE..................
   040   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                400,734         400,734
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
   050   CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT         1,299,089       1,299,089
          AND SYSTEM SUPPORT...........
   060   BASE SUPPORT..................         911,775         911,775
   070   CYBERSPACE SUSTAINMENT........          24,742          24,742
   080   CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES.........          25,507          25,507
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       6,639,658       6,599,658
 
         ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-
          WIDE ACTIVITIES
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   090   ADMINISTRATION................          47,215          47,215
   100   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....          40,356          40,356
             SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION             87,571          87,571
             AND SERVICE-WIDE
             ACTIVITIES................
   110   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                         -30,000
             Maintain program                                  [-30,000]
             affordability:
             Overestimation of civilian
             FTE targets...............
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                         -30,000
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               6,727,229       6,657,229
              MAINTENANCE, ANG.........
 
         OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,
          DEFENSE-WIDE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF.........         409,542         392,542
             Program decrease                                  [-12,000]
             unaccounted for...........
             Remove one-time fiscal                             [-5,000]
             year 2019 costs...........
   020   JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF--CE2T2..         579,179         579,179
   030   JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF--CYBER..          24,598          24,598
   040   SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND           1,075,762       1,070,262
          COMBAT DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
             Classified adjustment.....                         [-5,500]
   050   SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND              14,409          14,409
          CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES........
   060   SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND             501,747         486,953
          INTELLIGENCE.................
             DCGS--SOF - excess to need                         [-5,794]
             Program decrease--SOCRATES                         [-9,000]
   070   SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND             559,300         544,300
          MAINTENANCE..................
             Projected underexecution..                        [-15,000]
   080   SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND             177,928         177,928
          MANAGEMENT/OPERATIONAL
          HEADQUARTERS.................
   090   SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND             925,262         899,762
          OPERATIONAL SUPPORT..........
             Base support                                       [-5,900]
             underexecution............
             Operational support                                [-9,600]
             underexecution............
             Unjustified growth--C4IAS                         [-10,000]
             Saas......................
   100   SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND           2,764,738       2,250,038
          THEATER FORCES...............
             Program decrease..........                        [-14,700]
             Realignment to OCO........                       [-500,000]
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       7,032,465       6,439,971
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   120   DEFENSE ACQUISITION UNIVERSITY         180,250         180,250
   130   JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF.........         100,610         100,610
   140   PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT                33,967          33,967
          EDUCATION....................
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND              314,827         314,827
             RECRUITING................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
   160   CIVIL MILITARY PROGRAMS.......         165,707         260,007
             IRT Increase..............                         [14,300]
             National Guard Youth                               [50,000]
             Challenge Program support.
             Program increase--STARBASE                         [30,000]
   180   DEFENSE CONTRACT AUDIT AGENCY.         627,467         627,467
   190   DEFENSE CONTRACT AUDIT AGENCY--          3,362           3,362
          CYBER........................
   200   DEFENSE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT          1,438,068       1,418,068
          AGENCY.......................
             Program decrease..........                        [-20,000]
   210   DEFENSE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT             24,391          24,391
          AGENCY--CYBER................
   220   DEFENSE HUMAN RESOURCES                892,438         882,438
          ACTIVITY.....................
             Defense Manpower Data                              [-5,000]
             Center--Excess Growth.....
             Enterprise Operations                              [-5,000]
             Center--Excess Growth.....
   230   DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS          2,012,885       1,992,885
          AGENCY.......................
             Unjustified growth........                        [-20,000]
   240   DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS            601,223         636,360
          AGENCY--CYBER................
             Sharkseer transfer........                         [35,137]
   270   DEFENSE LEGAL SERVICES AGENCY.          34,632          34,632
   280   DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY......         415,699         435,199
             Program increase--PTAP....                         [19,500]
   290   DEFENSE MEDIA ACTIVITY........         202,792         202,792
   300   DEFENSE PERSONNEL ACCOUNTING           144,881         144,881
          AGENCY.......................
   310   DEFENSE SECURITY COOPERATION           696,884         666,884
          AGENCY.......................
             Assessment, monitoring,                            [11,000]
             and evaluation............
             Security cooperation                              [-11,000]
             account...................
             Unjustified growth........                        [-30,000]
   320   DEFENSE SECURITY SERVICE......         889,664         889,664
   340   DEFENSE SECURITY SERVICE--               9,220           9,220
          CYBER........................
   360   DEFENSE TECHNICAL INFORMATION            3,000           3,000
          CENTER.......................
   370   DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY SECURITY             35,626          35,626
          ADMINISTRATION...............
   380   DEFENSE THREAT REDUCTION               568,133         568,133
          AGENCY.......................
   400   DEFENSE THREAT REDUCTION                13,339          13,339
          AGENCY--CYBER................
   410   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE                2,932,226       2,912,226
          EDUCATION ACTIVITY...........
             Remove one-time fiscal                            [-50,000]
             year 2019 increase........
             Overestimation of civilian                        [-20,000]
             FTE targets...............
             Program increase--impact                           [10,000]
             aid for children with
             severe disabilites........
             Program increase--impact                           [40,000]
             aid to schools with
             military dependents.......
   420   MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY........         522,529         509,859
             THAAD prior year under-                           [-12,670]
             execution.................
   450   OFFICE OF ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT.          59,513         134,513
             Defense Community                                  [75,000]
             Infrastructure Program
             (DCIP)....................
   460   OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF           1,604,738       1,625,738
          DEFENSE......................
             Bien Hoa dioxin cleanup...                         [15,000]
             CDC study.................                         [10,000]
             Emerging contaminants.....                          [1,000]
             Excess growth.............                        [-37,000]
             Interstate compacts for                             [4,000]
             licensure and
             credentialing.............
             Military aviation safety                            [3,000]
             commission................
             Readiness and                                      [25,000]
             Environmental Protection
             Initiative increase.......
   470   OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF              48,783          48,783
          DEFENSE--CYBER...............
   480   SPACE DEVELOPMENT AGENCY......          44,750          34,750
             Insufficient justification                        [-10,000]
   500   WASHINGTON HEADQUARTERS                324,001         296,201
          SERVICES.....................
             Insufficient justification                        [-27,800]
   505   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........      15,816,598      15,757,457
             Classified adjustment.....                        [-24,004]
             Realignment to DISA for                           [-35,137]
             Sharkseer.................
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE        30,132,549      30,167,875
             ACTIVITIES................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION AND            37,479,841      36,922,673
              MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                                -557,168
              MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE
 
         US COURT OF APPEALS FOR ARMED
          FORCES, DEF
         ADMINISTRATION AND ASSOCIATED
          ACTIVITIES
   010   US COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE             14,771          14,771
          ARMED FORCES, DEFENSE........
             SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION             14,771          14,771
             AND ASSOCIATED ACTIVITIES.
 
              TOTAL US COURT OF APPEALS          14,771          14,771
              FOR ARMED FORCES, DEF....
 
         DOD ACQUISITION WORKFORCE
          DEVELOPMENT FUND
         ACQUISITION WORKFORCE
          DEVELOPMENT
   010   ACQ WORKFORCE DEV FD..........         400,000         400,000
             SUBTOTAL ACQUISITION               400,000         400,000
             WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT.....
 
              TOTAL DOD ACQUISITION             400,000         400,000
              WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT
              FUND.....................
 
         OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN,
          DISASTER, AND CIVIC AID
         HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE
   010   OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN,                 108,600         117,663
          DISASTER AND CIVIC AID.......
             Increase for foreign                                [6,822]
             disaster relief...........
             Increase for humanitarian                           [2,241]
             mine action program.......
             SUBTOTAL HUMANITARIAN              108,600         117,663
             ASSISTANCE................
 
              TOTAL OVERSEAS                    108,600         117,663
              HUMANITARIAN, DISASTER,
              AND CIVIC AID............
 
         COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION
          ACCOUNT
         COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION
   010   COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION..         338,700         358,700
             Cooperative biological                             [20,000]
             engagement................
             SUBTOTAL COOPERATIVE               338,700         358,700
             THREAT REDUCTION..........
 
              TOTAL COOPERATIVE THREAT          338,700         358,700
              REDUCTION ACCOUNT........
 
         ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION,
          ARMY
         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
   050   ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION,             207,518         212,518
          ARMY.........................
             Perfluorinated chemicals..                          [5,000]
             SUBTOTAL DEPARTMENT OF THE         207,518         212,518
             ARMY......................
 
              TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL               207,518         290,582
              RESTORATION, ARMY........
         ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION,
          NAVY
         DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
   060   ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION,             335,932         350,932
          NAVY.........................
             Perfluorinated chemicals..                          [5,000]
             Unexploded ordnance                                [10,000]
             remediation...............
             SUBTOTAL DEPARTMENT OF THE         335,932         350,932
             NAVY......................
 
              TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL               335,932         418,996
              RESTORATION, NAVY........
         ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, AIR
          FORCE
         DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
   070   ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, AIR         302,744         365,808
          FORCE........................
             Perfluorinated chemicals..                         [63,064]
             SUBTOTAL DEPARTMENT OF THE         302,744         365,808
             AIR FORCE.................
 
              TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL               302,744         385,808
              RESTORATION, AIR FORCE...
 
         ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION,
          DEFENSE-WIDE
   080   ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION,               9,105           9,105
          DEFENSE-WIDE.................
             SUBTOTAL DEFENSE-WIDE.....           9,105           9,105
 
              TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL                 9,105          92,169
              RESTORATION, DEFENSE-WIDE
 
         ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION
          FORMERLY USED SITES
         DEFENSE-WIDE
   090   ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION              216,499         216,499
          FORMERLY USED SITES..........
             SUBTOTAL DEFENSE-WIDE.....         216,499         216,499
 
              TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL               216,499         216,499
              RESTORATION FORMERLY USED
              SITES....................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &             207,661,689     201,610,944
              MAINTENANCE..............
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4302. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY 
OPERATIONS.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
SEC. 4302. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
                        (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             FY 2020        Conference
  Line                Item                   Request        Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MANEUVER UNITS................       1,410,874       1,671,422
             Realignment from base.....                        [260,548]
   030   ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE........          26,502          26,502
   040   THEATER LEVEL ASSETS..........       2,274,490       2,259,490
             Unjustified growth........                        [-15,000]
   050   LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT         136,288         136,288
   060   AVIATION ASSETS...............         300,240         300,240
   070   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS           3,415,009       4,510,009
          SUPPORT......................
             Insufficient justification                         [-5,000]
             Realignment from base.....                      [1,100,000]
   080   LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS.          29,985          29,985
   090   LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE.          86,931          86,931
   100   BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......         115,706         115,706
   110   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                 72,657          72,657
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
   130   ADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES.........       6,397,586       6,385,586
             Insufficient justification                        [-12,000]
   140   COMMANDER'S EMERGENCY RESPONSE           5,000           2,500
          PROGRAM......................
             Insufficient justification                         [-2,500]
   150   RESET.........................       1,048,896       1,048,896
   160   US AFRICA COMMAND.............         203,174         203,174
   170   US EUROPEAN COMMAND...........         173,676         173,676
   200   CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--                188,529         188,529
          CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS........
   210   CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--                  5,682           5,682
          CYBERSECURITY................
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.      15,891,225      17,217,273
 
         MOBILIZATION
   230   ARMY PREPOSITIONED STOCKS.....         131,954         131,954
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION.....         131,954         131,954
 
         ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
   390   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....         721,014         721,014
   400   CENTRAL SUPPLY ACTIVITIES.....          66,845          66,845
   410   LOGISTIC SUPPORT ACTIVITIES...           9,309           9,309
   420   AMMUNITION MANAGEMENT.........          23,653          23,653
   460   OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT.......         109,019         109,019
   490   REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT........         251,355         251,355
   565   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........       1,568,564       1,568,564
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE         2,749,759       2,749,759
             ACTIVITIES................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &              18,772,938      20,098,986
              MAINTENANCE, ARMY........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
          RES
         OPERATING FORCES
   020   ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE........          20,440          20,440
   060   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS                 689             689
          SUPPORT......................
   090   BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......          16,463          16,463
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.          37,592          37,592
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                  37,592          37,592
              MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES....
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   010   MANEUVER UNITS................          45,896          45,896
   020   MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES......             180             180
   030   ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE........           2,982           2,982
   040   THEATER LEVEL ASSETS..........             548             548
   060   AVIATION ASSETS...............           9,229           9,229
   070   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS               1,584           1,584
          SUPPORT......................
   100   BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......          22,063          22,063
   120   MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL                 606             606
          HEADQUARTERS.................
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.          83,088          83,088
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   170   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS....             203             203
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD                 203             203
             ACTIVITIES................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                  83,291          83,291
              MAINTENANCE, ARNG........
 
         AFGHANISTAN SECURITY FORCES
          FUND
         AFGHAN NATIONAL ARMY
   090   SUSTAINMENT...................       1,313,047       1,313,047
   100   INFRASTRUCTURE................          37,152          37,152
   110   EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION..         120,868         120,868
   120   TRAINING AND OPERATIONS.......         118,591         118,591
             SUBTOTAL AFGHAN NATIONAL         1,589,658       1,589,658
             ARMY......................
 
         AFGHAN NATIONAL POLICE
   130   SUSTAINMENT...................         422,806         422,806
   140   INFRASTRUCTURE................           2,358           2,358
   150   EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION..         127,081         127,081
   160   TRAINING AND OPERATIONS.......         108,112         108,112
             SUBTOTAL AFGHAN NATIONAL           660,357         660,357
             POLICE....................
 
         AFGHAN AIR FORCE
   170   SUSTAINMENT...................         893,829         893,829
   180   INFRASTRUCTURE................           8,611           8,611
   190   EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION..         566,967         566,967
   200   TRAINING AND OPERATIONS.......         356,108         356,108
             SUBTOTAL AFGHAN AIR FORCE.       1,825,515       1,825,515
 
         AFGHAN SPECIAL SECURITY FORCES
   210   SUSTAINMENT...................         437,909         437,909
   220   INFRASTRUCTURE................          21,131          21,131
   230   EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION..         153,806         153,806
   240   TRAINING AND OPERATIONS.......         115,602         115,602
             SUBTOTAL AFGHAN SPECIAL            728,448         728,448
             SECURITY FORCES...........
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   245   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                        -300,000
             Unjustified request.......                       [-300,000]
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                        -300,000
 
              TOTAL AFGHANISTAN               4,803,978       4,503,978
              SECURITY FORCES FUND.....
 
         COUNTER ISIS TRAIN AND EQUIP
          FUND (CTEF)
         COUNTER ISIS TRAIN AND EQUIP
          FUND (CTEF)
   010   IRAQ..........................         745,000         545,000
             Program decrease..........                       [-100,000]
             Transfer to DSCA Security                        [-100,000]
             Cooperation...............
   020   SYRIA.........................         300,000         300,000
             SUBTOTAL COUNTER ISIS            1,045,000         845,000
             TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND
             (CTEF)....................
 
              TOTAL COUNTER ISIS TRAIN        1,045,000         845,000
              AND EQUIP FUND (CTEF)....
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT               373,047         973,047
          OPERATIONS...................
             Realignment from base.....                        [600,000]
   030   AVIATION TECHNICAL DATA &                  816             816
          ENGINEERING SERVICES.........
   040   AIR OPERATIONS AND SAFETY                9,582           9,582
          SUPPORT......................
   050   AIR SYSTEMS SUPPORT...........         197,262         197,262
   060   AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE....         168,246         168,246
   070   AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS                3,594           3,594
          SUPPORT......................
   080   AVIATION LOGISTICS............          10,618          10,618
   090   MISSION AND OTHER SHIP               1,485,108       1,935,108
          OPERATIONS...................
             Realignment from base.....                        [450,000]
   100   SHIP OPERATIONS SUPPORT &               20,334          20,334
          TRAINING.....................
   110   SHIP DEPOT MAINTENANCE........       2,365,615       2,365,615
   130   COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS AND               58,092          58,092
          ELECTRONIC WARFARE...........
   140   SPACE SYSTEMS AND SURVEILLANCE          18,000          18,000
   150   WARFARE TACTICS...............          16,984          16,984
   160   OPERATIONAL METEOROLOGY AND             29,382          29,382
          OCEANOGRAPHY.................
   170   COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES.........         608,870       1,008,870
             Realignment from base.....                        [400,000]
   180   EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND                7,799           7,799
          DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT.....
   200   COMBATANT COMMANDERS DIRECT             24,800          24,800
          MISSION SUPPORT..............
   220   CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES.........             363             363
   240   WEAPONS MAINTENANCE...........         486,188         486,188
   250   OTHER WEAPON SYSTEMS SUPPORT..          12,189          12,189
   270   SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND            68,667          68,667
          MODERNIZATION................
   280   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT........         219,099         219,099
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       6,184,655       7,634,655
 
         MOBILIZATION
   320   EXPEDITIONARY HEALTH SERVICES           17,580          17,580
          SYSTEMS......................
   330   COAST GUARD SUPPORT...........         190,000         190,000
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION.....         207,580         207,580
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   370   SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING....          52,161          52,161
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND               52,161          52,161
             RECRUITING................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   440   ADMINISTRATION................           8,475           8,475
   460   MILITARY MANPOWER AND                    7,653           7,653
          PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT.........
   490   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....          70,683          70,683
   520   ACQUISITION, LOGISTICS, AND             11,130          11,130
          OVERSIGHT....................
   530   INVESTIGATIVE AND SECURITY               1,559           1,559
          SERVICES.....................
   645   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........          17,754          17,754
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD             117,254         117,254
             ACTIVITIES................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               6,561,650       8,011,650
              MAINTENANCE, NAVY........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,
          MARINE CORPS
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   OPERATIONAL FORCES............         714,653         914,653
             Realignment from base.....                        [200,000]
   020   FIELD LOGISTICS...............         232,508         432,508
             Realignment from base.....                        [200,000]
   030   DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............          54,101          54,101
   050   CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES.........           2,000           2,000
   070   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT........          24,570          24,570
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       1,027,832       1,427,832
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   120   TRAINING SUPPORT..............          30,459          30,459
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND               30,459          30,459
             RECRUITING................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   160   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....          61,400          61,400
   225   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........           5,100           5,100
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD              66,500          66,500
             ACTIVITIES................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               1,124,791       1,524,791
              MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
          RES
         OPERATING FORCES
   020   INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE......             510             510
   030   AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE....          11,628          11,628
   080   COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES.........          10,898          10,898
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.          23,036          23,036
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                  23,036          23,036
              MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES....
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC
          RESERVE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   OPERATING FORCES..............           7,627           7,627
   040   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT........           1,080           1,080
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.           8,707           8,707
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                   8,707           8,707
              MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE..
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR
          FORCE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES.........         163,632         163,632
   020   COMBAT ENHANCEMENT FORCES.....       1,049,170       1,449,170
             Realignment from base.....                        [400,000]
   030   AIR OPERATIONS TRAINING (OJT,          111,808         111,808
          MAINTAIN SKILLS).............
   040   DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT               408,699         408,699
          MAINTENANCE..................
   050   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                147,264         147,264
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
   060   CYBERSPACE SUSTAINMENT........          10,061          10,061
   070   CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT           953,594         953,594
          AND SYSTEM SUPPORT...........
   080   FLYING HOUR PROGRAM...........       2,495,266       3,045,266
             Realignment from base.....                        [550,000]
   090   BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......       1,538,120       1,738,120
             Realignment from base.....                        [200,000]
   100   GLOBAL C3I AND EARLY WARNING..          13,863          13,863
   110   OTHER COMBAT OPS SPT PROGRAMS.         272,020         272,020
   120   CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES.........          17,657          17,657
   130   TACTICAL INTEL AND OTHER                36,098          36,098
          SPECIAL ACTIVITIES...........
   140   LAUNCH FACILITIES.............             391             391
   150   SPACE CONTROL SYSTEMS.........          39,990          39,990
   160   US NORTHCOM/NORAD.............             725             725
   170   US STRATCOM...................             926             926
   180   US CYBERCOM...................          35,189          35,189
   190   US CENTCOM....................         163,015         163,015
   200   US SOCOM......................          19,000          19,000
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       7,476,488       8,626,488
 
         MOBILIZATION
   240   AIRLIFT OPERATIONS............       1,271,439       1,271,439
   250   MOBILIZATION PREPAREDNESS.....         109,682         109,682
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION.....       1,381,121       1,381,121
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   260   OFFICER ACQUISITION...........             200             200
   270   RECRUIT TRAINING..............             352             352
   290   SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING....          26,802          26,802
   300   FLIGHT TRAINING...............             844             844
   310   PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT                 1,199           1,199
          EDUCATION....................
   320   TRAINING SUPPORT..............           1,320           1,320
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND               30,717          30,717
             RECRUITING................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   380   LOGISTICS OPERATIONS..........         164,701         164,701
   390   TECHNICAL SUPPORT ACTIVITIES..          11,608          11,608
   400   ADMINISTRATION................           4,814           4,814
   410   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS....         145,204         145,204
   420   OTHER SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES..          98,841          98,841
   460   INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT.........          29,890          29,890
   465   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........          52,995          52,995
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD             508,053         508,053
             ACTIVITIES................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               9,396,379      10,546,379
              MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE...
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF
          RESERVE
         OPERATING FORCES
   030   DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT                24,188          24,188
          MAINTENANCE..................
   060   BASE SUPPORT..................           5,570           5,570
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.          29,758          29,758
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                  29,758          29,758
              MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE..
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG
         OPERATING FORCES
   020   MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS....           3,666           3,666
   030   DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT                66,944          66,944
          MAINTENANCE..................
   050   CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT            93,620          93,620
          AND SYSTEM SUPPORT...........
   060   BASE SUPPORT..................          12,679          12,679
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.         176,909         176,909
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                 176,909         176,909
              MAINTENANCE, ANG.........
 
         OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,
          DEFENSE-WIDE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF.........          21,866          21,866
   020   JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF--CE2T2..           6,634           6,634
   040   SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND           1,121,580       1,111,580
          COMBAT DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
             Classified adjustment.....                        [-10,000]
   060   SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND           1,328,201       1,328,201
          INTELLIGENCE.................
   070   SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND             399,845         399,845
          MAINTENANCE..................
   090   SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND             138,458         103,458
          OPERATIONAL SUPPORT..........
             Projected underexecution--                        [-35,000]
             communications............
   100   SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND             808,729       1,308,729
          THEATER FORCES...............
             Realignment from base.....                        [500,000]
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       3,825,313       4,280,313
 
         ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
   180   DEFENSE CONTRACT AUDIT AGENCY.           1,810           1,810
   200   DEFENSE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT             21,723          21,723
          AGENCY.......................
   230   DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS             81,133          81,133
          AGENCY.......................
   240   DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS              3,455           3,455
          AGENCY--CYBER................
   270   DEFENSE LEGAL SERVICES AGENCY.         196,124         196,124
   290   DEFENSE MEDIA ACTIVITY........          14,377          14,377
   310   DEFENSE SECURITY COOPERATION         1,927,217       1,677,217
          AGENCY.......................
             Security cooperation                              [-37,030]
             account, unjustified
             growth....................
             Transfer from CTEF Iraq...                        [100,000]
             Transfer of funds to                             [-250,000]
             Ukraine Security
             Assistance Initiative.....
             Unjustified growth........                        [-62,970]
   380   DEFENSE THREAT REDUCTION               317,558         317,558
          AGENCY.......................
   410   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE                   31,620          31,620
          EDUCATION ACTIVITY...........
   460   OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF              16,666          16,666
          DEFENSE......................
   500   WASHINGTON HEADQUARTERS                  6,331           6,331
          SERVICES.....................
   505   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........       1,924,785       1,924,785
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE         4,542,799       4,292,799
             ACTIVITIES................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION AND             8,368,112       8,573,112
              MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                                 205,000
              MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE
 
         UKRAINE SECURITY ASSISTANCE
         UKRAINE SECURITY ASSISTANCE
   010   UKRAINE SECURITY ASSISTANCE                            300,000
          INITIATIVE...................
             Program increase..........                         [50,000]
             Transfer of funds from                            [250,000]
             Defense Security
             Cooperation Agency........
             SUBTOTAL UKRAINE SECURITY                          300,000
             ASSISTANCE................
 
              TOTAL UKRAINE SECURITY                            300,000
              ASSISTANCE...............
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &              50,432,141      54,968,189
              MAINTENANCE..............
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4303. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FOR EMERGENCY REQUIREMENTS.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
   SEC. 4303. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FOR EMERGENCY REQUIREMENTS (In
                          Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              FY 2020       Conference
  Line                 Item                   Request       Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
         OPERATING FORCES
   270   SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND                  0        462,000
          MODERNIZATION.................
             Earthquake damage repair...                       [370,000]
             Navy Working Capital Fund                          [92,000]
             earthquake recovery losses.
   280   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT.........               0          9,000
             Earthquake damage recovery.                         [9,000]
         TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,                0        471,000
          NAVY..........................
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MARINE
          CORPS
         OPERATING FORCES
   060   SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION &                    0          6,000
          MODERNIZATION.................
             Earthquake damage repair...                         [6,000]
         TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,                0          6,000
          MARINE CORPS..................
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG
         OPERATING FORCES
   040   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                       0         58,900
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION...
             Hurricane recovery.........                        [58,900]
         TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,                0         58,900
          ANG...........................
 
         TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE..               0        535,900
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                     TITLE XLIV--MILITARY PERSONNEL

Sec. 4401. Military personnel.
Sec. 4402. Military personnel for overseas contingency operations.
SEC. 4401. MILITARY PERSONNEL.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
         SEC. 4401. MILITARY PERSONNEL (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            FY 2020         Conference
                 Item                       Request         Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Military Personnel Appropriations.....     143,476,503      142,676,503
Historical unobligated balances.......                        [-800,000]
Medicare-Eligible Retiree Health Fund        7,816,815        7,816,815
 Contributions........................
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4402. MILITARY PERSONNEL FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
  SEC. 4402. MILITARY PERSONNEL FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In
                          Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            FY 2020         Conference
                 Item                       Request         Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Military Personnel Appropriations.....       4,485,808        4,485,808
 
  Total, Military Personnel                  4,485,808        4,485,808
   Appropriations.....................
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                    TITLE XLV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 4501. Other authorizations.
Sec. 4502. Other authorizations for overseas contingency operations.
SEC. 4501. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
        SEC. 4501. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            FY 2020         Conference
             Program Title                  Request         Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY
INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS.................          57,467           57,467
SUPPLY MANAGEMENT--ARMY...............          32,130           32,130
  TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY....          89,597           89,597
 
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, AIR FORCE
TRANSPORTATION
SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS................          92,499           92,499
  TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, AIR               92,499           92,499
   FORCE..............................
 
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DEFENSE-WIDE
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT--DEF..........          49,085           49,085
  TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DEFENSE-          49,085           49,085
   WIDE...............................
 
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DECA
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DECA............         995,030          995,030
  TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DECA....         995,030          995,030
 
WCF, DEF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE &
 SECURITY AGENCY
DEFENSE COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND                200,000          200,000
 SECURITY AGENCY......................
  TOTAL WCF, DEF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE &         200,000          200,000
   SECURITY AGENCY....................
 
CHEM AGENTS & MUNITIONS DESTRUCTION
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE...............         107,351          107,351
RDT&E.................................;         875,930          875,930
PROCUREMENT...........................           2,218            2,218
  TOTAL CHEM AGENTS & MUNITIONS                985,499          985,499
   DESTRUCTION........................
 
DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG
 ACTIVITIES, DEF
COUNTER-NARCOTICS SUPPORT.............         581,739          532,818
     Realignment of National Guard                             [-30,921]
     Bureau funding...................
     Unjustified growth...............                         [-18,000]
DRUG DEMAND REDUCTION PROGRAM.........         120,922          120,922
NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG PROGRAM...          91,370          122,291
     Realignment of National Guard                              [30,921]
     Bureau funding...................
NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG SCHOOLS...           5,371            5,371
  TOTAL DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG           799,402          781,402
   ACTIVITIES, DEF....................
 
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL.......         359,022          359,022
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL--CYBER           1,179            1,179
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL.......           2,965            2,965
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL.......             333              333
  TOTAL OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR                363,499          363,499
   GENERAL............................
 
DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM
IN-HOUSE CARE.........................       9,570,615        9,320,615
     Unjustified growth...............                        [-250,000]
PRIVATE SECTOR CARE...................      15,041,006       15,002,506
     Historical underexecution........                         [-38,500]
CONSOLIDATED HEALTH SUPPORT...........       1,975,536        1,986,536
     Wounded Warrior Service Dog                                [11,000]
     program..........................
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT................       2,004,588        1,998,938
     Historical underexecution........                          [-5,650]
MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES.................         333,246          333,246
EDUCATION AND TRAINING................         793,810          793,310
     Other costs excess growth........                          [-3,000]
     Program increase--specialized                               [2,500]
     medical pilot program............
BASE OPERATIONS/COMMUNICATIONS........       2,093,289        2,093,289
R&D; RESEARCH..........................          12,621           12,621
R&D; EXPLORATRY DEVELOPMENT............          84,266           84,266
R&D; ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT..............         279,766          279,766
R&D; DEMONSTRATION/VALIDATION..........         128,055          128,055
R&D; ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT...........         143,527          143,527
R&D; MANAGEMENT AND SUPPORT............          67,219           67,219
R&D; CAPABILITIES ENHANCEMENT..........          16,819           16,819
PROC INITIAL OUTFITTING...............          26,135           26,135
PROC REPLACEMENT & MODERNIZATION......         225,774          225,774
PROC JOINT OPERATIONAL MEDICINE                    314              314
 INFORMATION SYSTEM...................
PROC MILITARY HEALTH SYSTEM--DESKTOP            73,010           73,010
 TO DATACENTER........................
PROC DOD HEALTHCARE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM          129,091          129,091
 MODERNIZATION........................
  TOTAL DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM........      32,998,687       32,715,037
 
  TOTAL OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS..........      36,573,298       36,271,648
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4502. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
 SEC. 4502. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In
                          Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            FY 2020         Conference
             Program Title                  Request         Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY
INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS
SUPPLY MANAGEMENT--ARMY...............          20,100           20,100
  TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY....          20,100           20,100
 
DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG
 ACTIVITIES, DEF
COUNTER-NARCOTICS SUPPORT.............         163,596          163,596
  TOTAL DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG           163,596          163,596
   ACTIVITIES, DEF....................
 
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL.......          24,254           24,254
  TOTAL OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR                 24,254           24,254
   GENERAL............................
 
DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM
IN-HOUSE CARE.........................          57,459           57,459
PRIVATE SECTOR CARE...................         287,487          287,487
CONSOLIDATED HEALTH SUPPORT...........           2,800            2,800
  TOTAL DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM........         347,746          347,746
 
  TOTAL OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS..........         555,696          555,696
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                   TITLE XLVI--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 4601. Military construction.
Sec. 4602. Military construction for overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 4603. Military construction for emergency requirements.
SEC. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                           SEC. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION (In Thousands of Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 State/Country and                                     FY 2020      Conference
          Account                  Installation               Project Title            Request      Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             Alabama
Army                           Redstone Arsenal        Aircraft and Flight                38,000         38,000
                                                        Equipment Building.
                             Colorado
Army                           Fort Carson             Company Operations Facility        71,000         71,000
                             Georgia
Army                           Fort Gordon             Cyber Instructional Fac           107,000         67,000
                                                        (Admin/Command).
Army                           Hunter Army Airfield    Aircraft Maintenance Hangar        62,000         62,000
                             Hawaii
Army                           Fort Shafter            Command and Control                60,000         60,000
                                                        Facility, Incr 5.
                             Honduras
Army                           Soto Cano Air Base      Aircraft Maintenance Hangar        34,000         34,000
                             Kentucky
Army                           Fort Campbell           Automated Infantry Platoon          7,100          7,100
                                                        Battle Course.
Army                           Fort Campbell           Easements..................         3,200          3,200
Army                           Fort Campbell           General Purpose Maintenance        51,000         51,000
                                                        Shop.
                             Kwajalein
Army                           Kwajalein Atoll         Air Traffic Control Tower               0         40,000
                                                        and Terminal.
                             Massachusetts
Army                           U.S. Army Natick        Human Engineering Lab......        50,000         50,000
                                Soldier Systems
                                Center
                             Michigan
Army                           Detroit Arsenal         Substation.................        24,000         24,000
                             New York
Army                           Fort Drum               Railhead...................             0         21,000
Army                           Fort Drum               Unmanned Aerial Vehicle            23,000         23,000
                                                        Hangar.
                             North Carolina
Army                           Fort Bragg              Dining Facility............        12,500         12,500
                             Oklahoma
Army                           Fort Sill               Adv Individual Training            73,000         73,000
                                                        Barracks Cplx, Ph2.
                             Pennsylvania
Army                           Carlisle Barracks       General Instruction                98,000         60,000
                                                        Building.
                             South Carolina
Army                           Fort Jackson            Reception Complex, Ph2.....        54,000         54,000
                             Texas
Army                           Corpus Christi Army     Powertrain Facility                86,000         86,000
                                Depot                   (Machine Shop).
Army                           Fort Hood               Barracks...................        32,000         32,000
Army                           Fort Hood               Vehicle Bridge.............             0         18,500
                             Virginia
Army                           Fort Belvoir            Secure Operations and Admin        60,000         60,000
                                                        Facility.
Army                           Joint Base Langley-     Adv Individual Training            55,000         55,000
                                Eustis                  Barracks Cplx, Ph4.
                             Washington
Army                           Joint Base Lewis-       Information Systems                46,000         46,000
                                McChord                 Facility.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Army                           Unspecified Worldwide   Child Development Centers..             0         27,000
                                Locations
Army                           Unspecified Worldwide   Host Nation Support........        31,000         31,000
                                Locations
Army                           Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........        94,099         94,099
                                Locations
Army                           Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  70,600         70,600
                                Locations               Construction.
Army                           Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Worldwide             211,000              0
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Army Total                                                1,453,499      1,270,999
                               ......................
                             Arizona
Navy                           Marine Corps Air        Bachelor Enlisted Quarters.             0         99,600
                                Station Yuma
Navy                           Marine Corps Air        Hangar 95 Renovation &             90,160         90,160
                                Station Yuma            Addition.
                             Australia
Navy                           Darwin                  Aircraft Parking Apron.....             0         50,000
                             Bahrain Island
Navy                           SW Asia                 Electrical System Upgrade..        53,360              0
                             California
Navy                           Camp Pendleton          62 Area Mess Hall and              71,700         71,700
                                                        Consolidated Warehouse.
Navy                           Camp Pendleton          I MEF Consolidated                113,869         38,869
                                                        Information Center.
Navy                           Marine Corps Air        Child Development Center...             0         37,400
                                Station Miramar
Navy                           Naval Air Weapons       Runway & Taxiway Extension.        64,500         64,500
                                Station China Lake
Navy                           Naval Air Weapons       Unspecified Military                    0              0
                                Station China Lake      Construction--Earthquake
                                                        Damage Recovery.
Navy                           Naval Base Coronado     Aircraft Paint Complex.....             0         79,000
Navy                           Naval Base Coronado     Navy V-22 Hangar...........        86,830         86,830
Navy                           Naval Base San Diego    Pier 8 Replacement (Inc)...        59,353         59,353
Navy                           Naval Base San Diego    PMO Facility Repair........             0          9,900
Navy                           Naval Weapons Station   Ammunition Pier............        95,310         60,310
                                Seal Beach
Navy                           Naval Weapons Station   Missile Magazine...........             0         28,000
                                Seal Beach
Navy                           Travis Air Force Base   Alert Force Complex........        64,000         64,000
                             Connecticut
Navy                           Naval Submarine Base    SSN Berthing Pier 32.......        72,260         72,260
                                New London
                             District of Columbia
Navy                           Naval Observatory       Master Time Clocks &               75,600         20,000
                                                        Operations Fac (Inc).
                             Florida
Navy                           Blount Island           Police Station and EOC                  0         18,700
                                                        Facility.
Navy                           Naval Air Station       Targeting & Surveillance           32,420         32,420
                                Jacksonville            Syst Prod Supp Fac.
                             Guam
Navy                           Joint Region Marianas   Bachelor Enlisted Quarters        164,100         34,100
                                                        H.
Navy                           Joint Region Marianas   EOD Compound Facilities....        61,900         61,900
Navy                           Joint Region Marianas   Machine Gun Range (Inc)....        91,287         91,287
                             Hawaii
Navy                           Marine Corps Air        Bachelor Enlisted Quarters.       13,4050         65,490
                                Station Kaneohe Bay
Navy                           Naval Ammunition Depot  Magazine Consolidation,            53,790         53,790
                                West Loch               Phase 1.
                             Italy
Navy                           Naval Air Station       Communications Station.....        77,400              0
                                Sigonella
                             Japan
Navy                           Fleet Activities        Pier 5 (Berths 2 and 3)....       17,4692        100,000
                                Yokosuka
Navy                           Marine Corps Air        VTOL Pad--South............        15,870         15,870
                                Station Iwakuni
                             Maryland
Navy                           Saint Inigoes           Air Traffic Control Tower..             0         15,000
                             North Carolina
Navy                           Camp Lejeune            10th Marines Himars Complex        35,110         35,110
Navy                           Camp Lejeune            2nd MARDIV/2nd MLG Ops             60,130         60,130
                                                        Center Replacement.
Navy                           Camp Lejeune            2nd Radio BN Complex, Phase        25,650         25,650
                                                        2 (Inc).
Navy                           Camp Lejeune            ACV-AAV Maintenance                11,570         11,570
                                                        Facility Upgrades.
Navy                           Camp Lejeune            II MEF Operations Center          12,2200         92,200
                                                        Replacement.
Navy                           Marine Corps Air        Aircraft Maintenance Hangar        73,970         73,970
                                Station Cherry Point    (Inc).
Navy                           Marine Corps Air        ATC Tower & Airfield               61,340         61,340
                                Station Cherry Point    Operations.
Navy                           Marine Corps Air        F-35 Training and Simulator        53,230         53,230
                                Station Cherry Point    Facility.
Navy                           Marine Corps Air        Flightline Utility                 51,860         51,860
                                Station Cherry Point    Modernization (Inc).
Navy                           Marine Corps Air        CH-53K Cargo Loading               11,320         11,320
                                Station New River       Trainer.
                             Pennsylvania
Navy                           Philadelphia            Machinery Control                       0         74,630
                                                        Development Center.
                             South Carolina
Navy                           Parris Island           Range Improvements &                    0         37,200
                                                        Modernization Phase 3.
                             Utah
Navy                           Hill Air Force Base     D5 Missile Motor Receipt/          50,520         50,520
                                                        Storage Fac (Inc).
                             Virginia
Navy                           Marine Corps Base       Wargaming Center...........       143,350         33,350
                                Quantico
Navy                           Naval Station Norfolk   Mariner Skills Training            79,100         79,100
                                                        Center.
Navy                           Naval Station Norfolk   MH-60 & CMV-22B Corrison                0         60,000
                                                        Control and Paint Facility.
Navy                           Portsmouth Naval        Dry Dock Flood Protection          48,930         48,930
                                Shipyard                Improvements.
Navy                           Yorktown Naval Weapons  NMC Ordnance Facilities                 0         59,000
                                Station                 Recapitalization Phase 1.
                             Washington
Navy                           Bremerton               Dry Dock 4 & Pier 3                51,010         51,010
                                                        Modernization.
Navy                           Keyport                 Undersea Vehicle                   25,050         25,050
                                                        Maintenance Facility.
Navy                           Naval Base Kitsap       Seawolf Service Pier Cost-              0         48,000
                                                        to-Complete.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Navy                           Unspecified Worldwide   Child Development Centers..             0         62,400
                                Locations
Navy                           Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........       167,715        167,715
                                Locations
Navy                           Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  81,237         81,237
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Navy Total                                                2,805,743      2,774,961
                               ......................
                             Alaska
AF                             Eielson Air Force Base  F-35 AME Storage Facility..         8,600          8,600
                             Arkansas
AF                             Little Rock Air Force   C-130H/J Fuselage Trainer          47,000         47,000
                                Base                    Facility.
AF                             Little Rock Air Force   Dormitory Cost-to-Complete.             0          7,000
                                Base
                             Australia
AF                             Tindal                  APR--RAAF Tindal/Earth             11,600         11,600
                                                        Covered Magazine.
AF                             Tindal                  APR-RAAF Tindal/Bulk               59,000         59,000
                                                        Storage Tanks.
                             California
AF                             Travis Air Force Base   ADAL Aerial Port Squadron               0         17,000
                                                        Materiel Warehouse.
AF                             Travis Air Force Base   KC-46A Alter B181/B185/B187         6,600          6,600
                                                        Squad Ops/AMU.
AF                             Travis Air Force Base   KC-46A Regional Maintenance        19,500         19,500
                                                        Training Facility.
                             Colorado
AF                             Peterson Air Force      SOCNORTH Theater                        0         54,000
                                Base                    Operational Support
                                                        Facility.
AF                             Schriever Air Force     Consolidated Space                148,000         73,449
                                Base                    Operations Facility.
AF                             United States Air       Consolidate Cadet Prep                  0         49,000
                                Force Academy           School Dormitory.
                             Cyprus
AF                             Royal Air Force         New Dormitory for 1 ERS....        27,000         27,000
                                Akrotiri
                             Georgia
AF                             Moody Air Force Base    41 RQS HH-60W Apron........             0         12,500
                             Guam
AF                             Joint Region Marianas   Munitions Storage Igloos           65,000         65,000
                                                        III.
                             Illinois
AF                             Scott Air Force Base    Joint Operations & Mission        100,000        100,000
                                                        Planning Center.
                             Japan
AF                             Yokota Air Base         Fuel Receipt & Distribution        12,400         12,400
                                                        Upgrade.
                             Jordan
AF                             Azraq                   Air Traffic Control Tower..        24,000              0
AF                             Azraq                   Munitions Storage Area.....        42,000              0
                             Mariana Islands
AF                             Tinian                  Airfield Development Phase        109,000         10,000
                                                        1.
AF                             Tinian                  Fuel Tanks W/ Pipeline/           109,000         10,000
                                                        Hydrant System.
AF                             Tinian                  Parking Apron..............        98,000         25,000
                             Maryland
AF                             Joint Base Andrews      Presidential Aircraft Recap        86,000         86,000
                                                        Complex Inc 3.
                             Massachusetts
AF                             Hanscom Air Force Base  MIT-Lincoln Lab (West Lab         135,000         80,000
                                                        CSL/MIF) Inc 2.
                             Missouri
AF                             Whiteman Air Force      Consolidated Vehicle Ops                0         27,000
                                Base                    and MX Facility.
                             Montana
AF                             Malmstrom Air Force     Weapons Storage and               235,000         59,000
                                Base                    Maintenance Facility.
                             Nevada
AF                             Nellis Air Force Base   365th ISR Group Facility...        57,000         57,000
AF                             Nellis Air Force Base   F-35 Munitions Maintenance              0          3,100
                                                        Facilities Cost-to-
                                                        Complete.
AF                             Nellis Air Force Base   F-35A Munitions Assembly            8,200          8,200
                                                        Conveyor Facility.
                             New Mexico
AF                             Holloman Air Force      NC3 Support WRM Storage/                0         20,000
                                Base                    Shipping Facility.
AF                             Kirtland Air Force      Combat Rescue Helicopter           15,500         15,500
                                Base                    Simulator (CRH) ADAL.
AF                             Kirtland Air Force      UH-1 Replacement Facility..        22,400         22,400
                                Base
                             North Dakota
AF                             Minot Air Force Base    Helo/Trfops/AMUfacility....         5,500          5,500
                             Ohio
AF                             Wright-Patterson Air    ADAL Intelligence Prod.           120,900        120,900
                                Force Base              Complex (NASIC) Inc 2.
                             Texas
AF                             Joint Base San Antonio  AFPC B-Wing................             0         36,000
AF                             Joint Base San Antonio  Aquatics Tank..............        69,000         69,000
AF                             Joint Base San Antonio  BMT Recruit Dormitory 8....       110,000        110,000
AF                             Joint Base San Antonio  T-X ADAL Ground Based Trng          9,300          9,300
                                                        Sys (GBTS) Sim.
AF                             Joint Base San Antonio  T-X MX Trng Sys                    19,000         19,000
                                                        Centrailized Trng Fac.
                             United Kingdom
AF                             Royal Air Force         F-35A PGM Facility.........        14,300         14,300
                                Lakenheath
                             Utah
AF                             Hill Air Force Base     GBSD Mission Integration          108,000         33,000
                                                        Facility.
AF                             Hill Air Force Base     Joint Advanced Tactical             6,500          6,500
                                                        Missile Storage Fac.
                             Washington
AF                             Fairchild Air Force     Consolidated TFI Base              31,000         31,000
                                Base                    Operations.
AF                             Fairchild Air Force     SERE Pipeline Dormitory                 0          4,800
                                Base                    Cost-to-Complete.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
AF                             Unspecified Worldwide   Child Development Centers..             0         31,500
                                Locations
AF                             Various Worldwide       Planning and Design........       142,148        142,148
                                Locations
AF                             Various Worldwide       Unspecified Minor                  79,682         79,682
                                Locations               Construction.
                             Wyoming
AF                             F. E. Warren Air Force  Consolidated Helo/TRF Ops/         18,100         18,100
                                Base                    AMU and Alert Fac.
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Air Force Total                                           2,179,230      1,723,579
                               ......................
                             California
Def-Wide                       Beale Air Force Base    Hydrant Fuel System                33,700         33,700
                                                        Replacement.
Def-Wide                       Camp Pendleton          Ambul Care Center/Dental           17,700         17,700
                                                        Clinic Replacement.
Def-Wide                       Mountain View--63 RSC   Install Microgrid                       0          9,700
                                                        Controller, 750 Kw PV, and
                                                        750 Kwh Battery Storage.
Def-Wide                       Naval Air Weapons       Energy Storage System......             0          8,950
                                Station China Lake
Def-Wide                       NSA Monterey            Cogeneration Plant at B236.             0         10,540
                             CONUS Classified
Def-Wide                       Classified Location     Battalion Complex, Ph 3....        82,200         82,200
                             Florida
Def-Wide                       Eglin Air Froce Base    SOF Combined Squadron Ops          16,500         16,500
                                                        Facility.
Def-Wide                       Hurlburt Field          SOF AMU & Weapons Hangar...        72,923         72,923
Def-Wide                       Hurlburt Field          SOF Combined Squadron              16,513         16,513
                                                        Operations Facility.
Def-Wide                       Hurlburt Field          SOF Maintenance Training           18,950         18,950
                                                        Facility.
Def-Wide                       Naval Air Station Key   SOF Watercraft Maintenance         16,000         16,000
                                West                    Facility.
                             Germany
Def-Wide                       Geilenkirchen Air Base  Ambulatory Care Center/            30,479         30,479
                                                        Dental Clinic.
Def-Wide                       Ramstein                Landstuhl Elementary School             0         66,800
                             Guam
Def-Wide                       Joint Region Marianas   Xray Wharf Refueling               19,200         19,200
                                                        Facility.
Def-Wide                       Naval Base Guam         NSA Anderson Smart Grid and             0         16,970
                                                        ICS Infrustructure.
                             Hawaii
Def-Wide                       Joint Base Pearl        Install 500kw Covered                   0          4,000
                                Harbor-Hickam           Parking PV System &
                                                        Electric Vehicle Charging
                                                        Stations B479.
Def-Wide                       Joint Base Pearl        SOF Undersea Operational           67,700         67,700
                                Harbor-Hickam           Training Facility.
                             Japan
Def-Wide                       Yokosuka                Kinnick High School Inc 2..       130,386              0
Def-Wide                       Yokota Air Base         Bulk Storage Tanks PH1.....       116,305         20,000
Def-Wide                       Yokota Air Base         Pacific East District              20,106         20,106
                                                        Superintendent's Office.
                             Maryland
Def-Wide                       Bethesda Naval          MEDCEN Addition/Altertion          96,900         33,000
                                Hospital                Incr 3.
Def-Wide                       Fort Detrick            Medical Research                   27,846         27,846
                                                        Acquisition Building.
Def-Wide                       Fort Meade              NSAW Recapitalize Building        426,000        426,000
                                                        #3 Inc 2.
Def-Wide                       NSA Bethesda            Chiller 3-9 Replacement....             0         13,840
Def-Wide                       South Potomac           IH Water Project--CBIRF/                0         18,460
                                                        IHEODTD/Housing.
                             Mississippi
Def-Wide                       Columbus Air Force      Fuel Facilities Replacement        16,800         16,800
                                Base
                             Missouri
Def-Wide                       Fort Leonard Wood       Hospital Replacement Incr 2        50,000         50,000
Def-Wide                       St. Louis               Next NGA West (N2W) Complex       218,800        118,800
                                                        Phase 2 Inc. 2.
                             New Mexico
Def-Wide                       White Sands Missile     Install Microgrid, 700kw                0          5,800
                                Range                   PV, 150 Kw Generator, and
                                                        Batteries.
                             North Carolina
Def-Wide                       Camp Lejeune            SOF Marine Raider Regiment         13,400         13,400
                                                        HQ.
Def-Wide                       Fort Bragg              SOF Assessment and                 12,103         12,103
                                                        Selection Training Complex.
Def-Wide                       Fort Bragg              SOF Human Platform-Force           43,000         43,000
                                                        Generation Facility.
Def-Wide                       Fort Bragg              SOF Operations Support Bldg        29,000         29,000
                             Oklahoma
Def-Wide                       Tulsa IAP               Fuels Storage Complex......        18,900         18,900
                             Rhode Island
Def-Wide                       Quonset State Airport   Fuels Storage Complex              11,600         11,600
                                                        Replacement.
                             South Carolina
Def-Wide                       Joint Base Charleston   Medical Consolidated               33,300         33,300
                                                        Storage & Distrib Center.
                             South Dakota
Def-Wide                       Ellsworth Air Force     Hydrant Fuel System                24,800         24,800
                                Base                    Replacement.
                             Texas
Def-Wide                       Camp Swift              Install Microgrid, 650KW                0          4,500
                                                        OV, & 500 KW Generator.
Def-Wide                       Fort Hood               Install a Central Energy                0         16,500
                                                        Plant.
                             Virginia
Def-Wide                       Defense Distribution    Operations Center Phase 2..        98,800         33,000
                                Depot Richmond
Def-Wide                       Joint Expeditionary     SOF NSWG-10 Operations             32,600         32,600
                                Base Little Creek--     Support Facility.
                                Fort Story
Def-Wide                       Joint Expeditionary     SOF NSWG2 JSOTF Ops                13,004         13,004
                                Base Little Creek--     Training Facility.
                                Fort Story
Def-Wide                       NRO Headquarters        Intergration System                     0             66
                                                        Upgrades.
Def-Wide                       Pentagon                Backup Generator...........         8,670          8,670
Def-Wide                       Pentagon                Control Tower & Fire Day           20,132         20,132
                                                        Station.
Def-Wide                       Training Center Dam     SOF Demolition Training            12,770         12,770
                                Neck                    Compound Expansion.
                             Washington
Def-Wide                       Joint Base Lewis-       SOF 22 STS Operations              47,700         47,700
                                McChord                 Facility.
Def-Wide                       Naval Base Kitsap       Keyport Main Substation                 0         23,670
                                                        Replacement.
                             Wisconsin
Def-Wide                       Gen Mitchell IAP        POL Facilities Replacement.        25,900         25,900
                             Worldwide Classified
Def-Wide                       Classified Location     Mission Support Compound...        52,000         52,000
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Contingency Construction...        10,000              0
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Energy Resilience and             150,000        150,000
                                Locations               Conserv. Invest. Prog..
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   ERCIP Design...............        10,000         10,000
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Exercise Related Minor             11,770         11,770
                                Locations               Construction.
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........        15,000         15,000
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........        29,679         29,679
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........        35,472         35,472
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........         4,890          4,890
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........        14,400         14,400
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   3,000          3,000
                                Locations               Construction.
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  31,464         31,464
                                Locations               Construction.
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   3,228          3,228
                                Locations               Construction.
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  10,000         10,000
                                Locations               Construction.
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   8,000          8,000
                                Locations               Construction.
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   4,950          4,950
                                Locations               Construction.
Def-Wide                       Various Worldwide       Planning and Design........        52,532         52,532
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Various Worldwide       Planning and Design........        63,382         63,382
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Various Worldwide       Planning and Design........        27,000         27,000
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Various Worldwide       Planning and Design:                    0         30,000
                                Locations               Military Installation
                                                        Resiliency.
Def-Wide                       Various Worldwide       Unspecified Minor                  10,000         10,000
                                Locations               Construction.
Def-Wide                       Various Worldwide       Unspecified Minor                  16,736         16,736
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Defense-Wide Total                                        2,504,190      2,267,595
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
NATO                           NATO Security           NATO Security Investment          144,040        144,040
                                Investment Program      Program.
                             ........................
      NATO Security Investment Program Total                                             144,040        144,040
                               ......................
                             Alabama
Army NG                        Anniston Army Depot     Enlisted Transient Barracks             0         34,000
Army NG                        Foley                   National Guard Readiness           12,000         12,000
                                                        Center.
                             California
Army NG                        Camp Roberts            Automated Multipurpose             12,000         12,000
                                                        Machine Gun Range.
                             Idaho
Army NG                        Orchard Combat          Railroad Tracks............        29,000         29,000
                                Training Center
                             Maryland
Army NG                        Havre de Grace          Combined Support                   12,000         12,000
                                                        Maintenance Shop.
                             Massachusetts
Army NG                        Camp Edwards            Automated Multipurpose              9,700          9,700
                                                        Machine Gun Range.
                             Minnesota
Army NG                        New Ulm                 National Guard Vehicle             11,200         11,200
                                                        Maintenance Shop.
                             Mississippi
Army NG                        Camp Shelby             Automated Multipurpose              8,100          8,100
                                                        Machine Gun Range.
                             Missouri
Army NG                        Springfield             National Guard Readiness           12,000         12,000
                                                        Center.
                             Nebraska
Army NG                        Bellevue                National Guard Readiness           29,000         29,000
                                                        Center.
                             New Hampshire
Army NG                        Concord                 National Guard Readiness            5,950          5,950
                                                        Center.
                             New York
Army NG                        Jamaica Armory          National Guard Readiness                0         91,000
                                                        Center.
                             Pennsylvania
Army NG                        Moon Township           Combined Support                   23,000         23,000
                                                        Maintenance Shop.
                             Vermont
Army NG                        Jericho                 General Instruction                     0         30,000
                                                        Builiding.
                             Washington
Army NG                        Richland                National Guard Readiness           11,400         11,400
                                                        Center.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Army NG                        Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........        20,469         20,469
                                Locations
Army NG                        Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  15,000         15,000
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Army National Guard Total                                   210,819        365,819
                               ......................
                             Delaware
Army Res                       Newark                  Army Reserve Center/BMA....        21,000         21,000
                             Wisconsin
Army Res                       Fort McCoy              Transient Training Barracks        25,000         25,000
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Army Res                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........         6,000          6,000
                                Locations
Army Res                       Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   8,928          8,928
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Army Reserve Total                                           60,928         60,928
                               ......................
                             Louisiana
N/MC Res                       New Orleans             Entry Control Facility             25,260         25,260
                                                        Upgrades.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
N/MC Res                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........         4,780          4,780
                                Locations
N/MC Res                       Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  24,915         24,915
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Naval Reserve Total                                          54,955         54,955
                               ......................
                             California
Air NG                         Moffett Air National    Fuels/Corrosion Control                 0         57,000
                                Guard Base              Hanger and Shops.
                             Georgia
Air NG                         Savannah/Hilton Head    Consolidated Joint Air             24,000         24,000
                                IAP                     Dominance Hangar/Shops.
                             Missouri
Air NG                         Rosecrans Memorial      C-130 Flight Simulator              9,500          9,500
                                Airport                 Facility.
                             Puerto Rico
Air NG                         Luis Munoz-Marin IAP    Communications Facility....        12,500         12,500
Air NG                         Luis Munoz-Marin IAP    Maintenance Hangar.........        37,500         36,000
                             Wisconsin
Air NG                         Truax Field             F-35 Simulator Facility....        14,000         14,000
Air NG                         Truax Field             Fighter Alert Shelters.....        20,000         20,000
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Air NG                         Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  31,471         31,471
                                Locations               Construction.
Air NG                         Various Worldwide       Planning and Design........        17,000         17,000
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Air National Guard Total                                    165,971        221,471
                               ......................
                             Georgia
AF Res                         Robins Air Force Base   Consolidated Misssion              43,000         43,000
                                                        Complex Phase 3.
                             Maryland
AF Res                         Joint Base Andrews      AES Training Admin Facility             0         15,000
                             Minnesota
AF Res                         Minneapolis-St.paul     Aerial Port Facility.......             0          9,800
                                IAP
                             Worldwide Unspecified
AF Res                         Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........         4,604          4,604
                                Locations
AF Res                         Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  12,146         12,146
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Air Force Reserve Total                                      59,750         84,550
                               ......................
                             Germany
FH Con Army                    Baumholder              Family Housing Improvements        29,983         29,983
                             Korea
FH Con Army                    Camp Humphreys          Family Housing New                 83,167         83,167
                                                        Construction Incr 4.
                             Pennsylvania
FH Con Army                    Tobyhanna Army Depot    Family Housing Replacement         19,000         19,000
                                                        Construction.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Con Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Family Housing P & D.......         9,222         14,222
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Family Housing Construction, Army Total                                            141,372        146,372
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings................        24,027         24,027
                                Locations
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Housing Privitization              18,627         63,627
                                Locations               Support.
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing....................       128,938        128,938
                                Locations
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance................        81,065        135,798
                                Locations
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Management.................        38,898         38,898
                                Locations
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Miscellaneous..............           484            484
                                Locations
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Services...................        10,156         10,156
                                Locations
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities..................         55712          55712
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Family Housing Operation And Maintenance, Army Total                               357,907        457,640
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Con Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Construction Improvements..        41,798         41,798
                                Locations
FH Con Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Planning & Design..........         3,863          3,863
                                Locations
FH Con Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   USMC DPRI/Guam Planning and         2,000          2,000
                                Locations               Design.
                             ........................
      Family Housing Construction, Navy And Marine Corps Total                            47,661         47,661
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings................        19,009         19,009
                                Locations
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Housing Privatization              21,975         81,575
                                Locations               Support.
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing....................        64,126         64,126
                                Locations
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance................        82,611        137,344
                                Locations
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Management.................        50,122         50,122
                                Locations
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Miscellaneous..............           151            151
                                Locations
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Services...................        16,647         16,647
                                Locations
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities..................        63,229         63,229
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Family Housing Operation And Maintenance, Navy And Marine Corps Total              317,870        432,203
                               ......................
                             Germany
FH Con AF                      Spangdahlem Air Base    Construct Deficit Military         53,584         53,584
                                                        Family Housing.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Con AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Construction Improvements..        46,638         46,638
                                Locations
FH Con AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Planning & Design..........         3,409          3,409
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Family Housing Construction, Air Force Total                                       103,631        103,631
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings................        30,283         30,283
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Housing Privatization......        22,593         53,793
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing....................        15,768         15,768
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance................       117,704        172,437
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Management.................        56,022         56,022
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Miscellaneous..............         2,144          2,144
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Services...................         7,770          7,770
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities..................        42,732         42,732
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Family Housing Operation And Maintenance, Air Force Total                          295,016        380,949
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings................            82             82
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings................           645            645
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing....................        12,906         12,906
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing....................        39,222         39,222
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance................            32             32
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities..................            13             13
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities..................         4,100          4,100
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Family Housing Operation And Maintenance, Defense-Wide Total                        57,000         57,000
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FHIF                           Unspecified Worldwide   Administrative Expenses--           3,045          3,045
                                Locations               FHIF.
                             ........................
      DOD Family Housing Improvement Fund Total                                            3,045          3,045
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
UHIF                           Unspecified Worldwide   Administrative Expenses--             500            500
                                Locations               UHIF.
                             ........................
      Unaccompanied Housing Improvement Fund Total                                           500            500
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
BRAC                           Worldwide Unspecified   Base Realignment and               66,111         94,111
                                Locations               Closure.
                             ........................
      Base Realignment and Closure--Army Total                                            66,111         94,111
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
BRAC                           Unspecified Worldwide   Base Realignment & Closure.       158,349        216,349
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Base Realignment and Closure--Navy Total                                           158,349        216,349
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
BRAC                           Unspecified Worldwide   Dod BRAC Activities--Air           54,066         82,066
                                Locations               Force.
                             ........................
      Base Realignment and Closure--Air Force Total                                       54,066         82,066
                               ......................
                             Prior Year Savings
PYS                            Prior Year Savings      Prior Year Savings.........             0         -64685
                             ........................
      Prior Year Savings Total                                                                 0        -64,685
                               ......................
      Total, Military Construction                                                    11,241,653     10,925,739
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4602. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         SEC. 4602. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In Thousands of Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                       FY 2020      Conference
      Service          State/Country and Installation             Project              Request      Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Guantanamo Bay, Cuba
Army                   Guantanamo Bay Naval Station     OCO: Communications               22,000         22,000
                                                         Facility.
Army                   Guantanamo Bay Naval Station     OCO: Detention Legal              11,800         11,800
                                                         Office and Comms Ctr.
Army                   Guantanamo Bay Naval Station     OCO: High Value Detention         88,500              0
                                                         Facility.
                     Worldwide Unspecified
Army                   Unspecified Worldwide Locations  EDI/OCO Planning and              19,498         19,498
                                                         Design.
Army                   Unspecified Worldwide Locations  EDI: Bulk Fuel Storage....        36,000         36,000
Army                   Unspecified Worldwide Locations  EDI: Information Systems           6,200          6,200
                                                         Facility.
Army                   Unspecified Worldwide Locations  EDI: Minor Construction...         5,220          5,220
Army                   Unspecified Worldwide Locations  Unspecified Worldwide          9,200,000              0
                                                         Construction.
Army                   Various Worldwide Locations      EDI: Various Worldwide                 0         36,212
                                                         Locations Europe.
 
      Military Construction, Army Total                                                9,389,218        136,930
 
                     Bahrain
Navy                   SW Asia                          Electrical System Upgrade.             0         53,360
                     Italy
Navy                   Sigonella                        Communications Station....             0         77,400
                     Spain
Navy                   Rota                             EDI: In-Transit Munitions          9,960          9,960
                                                         Facility.
Navy                   Rota                             EDI: Joint Mobility Center        46,840         46,840
Navy                   Rota                             EDI: Small Craft Berthing         12,770         12,770
                                                         Facility.
                     Worldwide Unspecified
Navy                   Unspecified Worldwide Locations  Planning and Design.......        25,000         25,000
Navy                   Various Worldwide Locations      EDI: Various Worldwide                 0         36,211
                                                         Locations Europe.
 
      Military Construction, Navy Total                                                   94,570        261,541
 
                     Iceland
AF                     Keflavik                         EDI: Airfield Upgrades--          18,000         18,000
                                                         Dangerous Cargo Pad.
AF                     Keflavik                         EDI: Beddown Site Prep....         7,000          7,000
AF                     Keflavik                         EDI: Expand Parking Apron.        32,000         32,000
                     Jordan
AF                     Azraq                            Air Traffic Control Tower.             0         24,000
AF                     Azraq                            Munitions Storage Area....             0         42,000
                     Spain
AF                     Moron                            EDI: Hot Cargo Pad........         8,500          8,500
                     Worldwide Unspecified
AF                     Unspecified                      Planning & Design.........             0         60,000
AF                     Unspecified Worldwide Locations  EDI: ECAOS DABS/FEV EMEDS        107,000        107,000
                                                         Storage.
AF                     Unspecified Worldwide Locations  EDI: Hot Cargo Pad........        29,000         29,000
AF                     Unspecified Worldwide Locations  EDI: Munitions Storage            39,000         39,000
                                                         Area.
AF                     Various Worldwide Locations      EDI: Various Worldwide                 0         36,211
                                                         Locations Europe.
AF                     Various Worldwide Locations      EDI: P&D..................;        61,438         61,438
AF                     Various Worldwide Locations      EDI: UMMC.................        12,800         12,800
 
      Military Construction, Air Force Total                                             314,738        476,949
 
                     Germany
Def-Wide               Gemersheim                       EDI: Logistics                    46,000         46,000
                                                         Distribution Center Annex.
 
      Military Construction,Defense-Wide Total                                            46,000         46,000
 
      Total, Military Construction                                                     9,844,526        921,420
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4603. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FOR EMERGENCY REQUIREMENTS.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              SEC. 4603. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FOR EMERGENCY REQUIREMENTS (In Thousands of Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                       FY 2020      Conference
      Service          State/Country and Installation             Project              Request      Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     California
Navy                   Naval Air Weapons Station China  Planning and Design.......             0         89,320
                        Lake
Navy                   Naval Air Weapons Station China  Hanger 3 Replacement,                  0        514,600
                        Lake                             Apron, Taxiway &
                                                         Utilities for RDT&E.;
Navy                   Naval Air Weapons Station China  Aircraft Parking Apron in              0         50,800
                        Lake                             Support of Hanger 2
                                                         Replacement.
Navy                   Naval Air Weapons Station China  Michelson Mission Systems              0        202,340
                        Lake                             Intergration Laboratory.
Navy                   Naval Air Weapons Station China  Magazines & Inert Storage              0        138,930
                        Lake                             Facility.
Navy                   Naval Air Weapons Station China  Air Operations Facility &              0         70,900
                        Lake                             Air Traffic Control Tower.
Navy                   Naval Air Weapons Station China  Community Support                      0         85,790
                        Lake                             Facilities.
                     North Carolina
Navy                   Camp Lejeune                     Courthouse Bay Fire                    0         21,336
                                                         Station Replacement.
Navy                   Camp Lejeune                     Hadnot Point Fire Station              0         21,931
                                                         Replacement.
Navy                   Camp Lejeune                     Hadnot Point Mess Hall                 0         66,023
                                                         Replacement.
Navy                   Camp Lejeune                     II MEF Simulation/Training             0         74,487
                                                         Center Replacement.
Navy                   Camp Lejeune                     LOGCOM CSP Warehouse                   0         35,874
                                                         Replacement.
Navy                   Camp Lejeune                     LSSS Facility Replacement.             0         26,815
Navy                   Camp Lejeune                     MC Advisor Battalion HQS               0         30,109
                                                         Replacement.
Navy                   Camp Lejeune                     MCCSSS Log Ops School.....             0        179,617
Navy                   Camp Lejeune                     MCES Applied Instruction               0         95,599
                                                         Facility Replacement.
Navy                   Camp Lejeune                     NCIS Facilities                        0         22,594
                                                         Replacement.
Navy                   Camp Lejeune                     PMO Facility Replacement..             0         34,718
Navy                   Camp Lejeune                     WTBN Headquarters                      0         18,644
                                                         Replacement.
Navy                   MCAS Cherry Point                Physical Security                      0         52,300
                                                         Compliance.
Navy                   MCAS Cherry Point                BT-11 Range Operations                 0         14,251
                                                         Center Replacement.
Navy                   MCAS New River                   C-12W Aircraft Maintenance             0         36,295
                                                         Hangar Replacement.
Navy                   MCAS New River                   Bachelor Enlisted Quarters             0         62,104
                                                         Replacement.
Navy                   MCAS New River                   CNATT Classroom Building               0        114,706
                                                         Replacement.
Navy                   MCAS New River                   CH-53K Maintenance Hangar              0        252,717
                                                         Replacement.
                     .................................
      Military Construction, Navy Total                                                        0      2,312,800
                       ...............................
                     Florida
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           325th Fighting Wing HQ                 0         38,000
                                                         Facility.
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           Aerospace & Operational                0         12,000
                                                         Physiology Facility.
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           Aircraft MX Fuel Cell                  0         37,000
                                                         Hangar.
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           Aircraft Wash Rack........             0          9,100
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           Airfield Drainage.........             0        144,000
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           Auxiliary Ground Equipment             0         22,000
                                                         Facility.
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           Chapel....................             0         26,000
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           Community Commons Facility             0         64,000
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           Deployment Center/Flight               0         43,000
                                                         Line Dining/AAFES.
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           Dorm Complex Phase 1......             0        145,000
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           Dorm Complex Phase 2......             0        131,000
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           Emergency Management, EOC,             0         20,000
                                                         Alt CP.
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           Flightline--Muns Storage,              0         36,000
                                                         7000 Area.
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           Lodging Facilities Phase 1             0         90,000
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           Lodging Facilities Phase 2             0         89,000
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           Operations Group/                      0         24,000
                                                         Maintenance Group HQ.
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           Ops/Aircraft Maintenance               0         74,000
                                                         Unit/Hangar #2.
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           Ops/Aircraft Maintenance               0         75,000
                                                         Unit/Hangar #3.
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           OSS/Radar Approach Control             0         37,000
                                                         Facility.
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           Planning and Design.......             0         52,400
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           Security Forces Mobility               0          6,700
                                                         Storage Facility.
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           Simulator Facility........             0         38,000
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           Site Development,                      0        141,000
                                                         Utilities & Demo Phase 2.
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           Small Arms Range..........             0         26,000
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           Special Purpose Vehicle                0         20,000
                                                         Maintenance.
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           Tyndall AFB Gate Complexes             0         75,000
AF                     Tyndall Air Force Base           Weapons Load Training                  0         25,000
                                                         Hangar.
                     Nebraska
AF                     Offutt Air Force Base            Emergency Power Microgrid.             0         43,000
AF                     Offutt Air Force Base            Flightline Hangars Campus.             0         10,000
AF                     Offutt Air Force Base            Lake Campus...............             0          6,000
AF                     Offutt Air Force Base            Logistics Readiness                    0         18,500
                                                         Squadron Campus.
AF                     Offutt Air Force Base            Security Campus...........             0         63,000
                     Virginia
AF                     Joint Base Langley-Eustis        Dormitory.................             0         31,000
                     .................................
      Military Construction, Air Force Total                                                   0      1,671,700
                       ...............................
                     North Carolina
Def-Wide               Camp Lejeune                     Ambulatory Care Center                 0         17,821
                                                         (Camp Geiger).
Def-Wide               Camp Lejeune                     Ambulatory Care Center                 0         27,492
                                                         (Camp Johnson).
Def-Wide               Camp Lejeune                     MARSOC ITC Team Facility               0         30,000
                                                         Replacement.
                     .................................
      Military Construction, Defense-Wide Total                                                0         75,313
                       ...............................
                     Louisiana
Army NG                Pineville                        National Guard Readiness               0         16,500
                                                         Center.
                     Nebraska
Army NG                Ashland                          Training Site, Various                 0         35,000
                                                         Facilities.
Army NG                Ashland                          Flood Control Levee/                   0          8,500
                                                         Floodwall.
                     .................................
      Military Construction, Army National Guard Total                                         0         60,000
                       ...............................
      Total, Military Construction                                                             0      4,119,813
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


      TITLE XLVII--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

Sec. 4701. Department of Energy national security programs.
SEC. 4701. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
SEC. 4701. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS (In Thousands
                               of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               FY 2020      Conference
                  Program                      Request      Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Discretionary Summary By Appropriation
  Energy And Water Development, And
   Related Agencies
  Appropriation Summary:
    Energy Programs
      Nuclear Energy......................       137,808        137,808
 
    Atomic Energy Defense Activities
      National nuclear security
       administration:
        Weapons activities................    12,408,603     12,444,780
        Defense nuclear nonproliferation..     1,993,302      2,020,814
        Naval reactors....................     1,648,396      1,633,396
        Federal salaries and expenses.....       434,699        434,699
      Total, National nuclear security        16,485,000     16,533,689
       administration.....................
 
      Environmental and other defense
       activities:
        Defense environmental cleanup.....     5,506,501      5,527,732
        Other defense activities..........     1,035,339        885,839
        Defense nuclear waste disposal....        26,000              0
      Total, Environmental & other defense     6,567,840      6,413,571
       activities.........................
    Total, Atomic Energy Defense              23,052,840     22,947,260
     Activities...........................
Total, Discretionary Funding..............    23,190,648     23,085,068
 
Nuclear Energy
  Idaho sitewide safeguards and security..       137,808        137,808
Total, Nuclear Energy.....................       137,808        137,808
 
Weapons Activities
  Directed stockpile work
    Life extension programs and major
     alterations
      B61-12 Life extension program.......       792,611        792,611
      W76-2 Modification program..........        10,000         10,000
      W88 Alt 370.........................       304,186        304,186
      W80-4 Life extension program........       898,551        898,551
      W87-1 Modification Program (formerly       112,011        112,011
       IW1)...............................
    Total, Life extension programs and         2,117,359      2,117,359
     major alterations....................
 
    Stockpile systems
      B61 Stockpile systems...............        71,232         71,232
      W76 Stockpile systems...............        89,804         89,804
      W78 Stockpile systems...............        81,299         81,299
      W80 Stockpile systems...............        85,811         85,811
      B83 Stockpile systems...............        51,543         51,543
      W87 Stockpile systems...............        98,262         98,262
      W88 Stockpile systems...............       157,815        157,815
    Total, Stockpile systems..............       635,766        635,766
 
    Weapons dismantlement and disposition
      Operations and maintenance..........        47,500         47,500
        Program increase
 
    Stockpile services
      Production support..................       543,964        543,964
      Research and development support....        39,339         39,339
      R&D; certification and safety........       236,235        236,235
      Management, technology, and                305,000        305,000
       production.........................
    Total, Stockpile services.............     1,124,538      1,124,538
 
    Strategic materials
      Uranium sustainment.................        94,146         94,146
      Plutonium sustainment...............       712,440        712,440
      Tritium sustainment.................       269,000        269,000
      Lithium sustainment.................        28,800         28,800
      Domestic uranium enrichment.........       140,000        140,000
      Strategic materials sustainment.....       256,808        256,808
    Total, Strategic materials............     1,501,194      1,501,194
  Total, Directed stockpile work..........     5,426,357      5,426,357
 
  Research, development, test and
   evaluation (RDT&E;)
    Science
      Advanced certification..............        57,710         57,710
      Primary assessment technologies.....        95,169         95,169
      Dynamic materials properties........       133,800        133,800
      Advanced radiography................        32,544         32,544
      Secondary assessment technologies...        77,553         77,553
      Academic alliances and partnerships.        44,625         44,625
      Enhanced Capabilities for                  145,160        145,160
       Subcritical Experiments............
    Total, Science........................       586,561        586,561
 
    Engineering
      Enhanced surety.....................        46,500         46,500
      Delivery Environments (formerly             35,945         35,945
       Weapons Systems Engineering
       Assessment Technology).............
      Nuclear survivability...............        53,932         53,932
      Enhanced surveillance...............        57,747         57,747
      Stockpile Responsiveness............        39,830         80,630
        Program expansion.................                      [40,800]
    Total, Engineering ...................       233,954        274,754
 
    Inertial confinement fusion ignition
     and high yield
      Ignition and Other Stockpile                55,649         55,649
       Programs...........................
      Diagnostics, cryogenics and                 66,128         66,128
       experimental support...............
      Pulsed power inertial confinement            8,571          8,571
       fusion.............................
      Joint program in high energy density        12,000         12,000
       laboratory plasmas.................
      Facility operations and target             338,247        343,247
       production.........................
        Program increase..................                       [5,000]
    Total, Inertial confinement fusion and       480,595        485,595
     high yield...........................
 
    Advanced simulation and computing
      Advanced simulation and computing...       789,849        789,849
      Construction:
        18-D-620, Exascale Computing              50,000         50,000
         Facility Modernization Project,
         LLNL.............................
      Total, Construction.................        50,000         50,000
    Total, Advanced simulation and               839,849        839,849
     computing............................
 
    Advanced manufacturing
      Additive manufacturing..............        18,500         18,500
      Component manufacturing development.        48,410         52,000
        UFR list--technology maturation...                       [3,590]
      Process technology development......        69,998         69,998
    Total, Advanced manufacturing.........       136,908        140,498
  Total, RDT&E............................;     2,277,867      2,327,257
 
  Infrastructure and operations
    Operations of facilities..............       905,000        905,000
    Safety and environmental operations...       119,000        119,000
    Maintenance and repair of facilities..       456,000        456,000
    Recapitalization:
      Infrastructure and safety...........       447,657        447,657
      Capability based investments........       135,341        135,341
    Total, Recapitalization...............       582,998        582,998
 
    Construction:
      19-D-670, 138kV Power Transmission           6,000          6,000
       System Replacement, NNSS...........
      18-D-690, Lithium Processing                32,000         32,000
       Facility, Y-12 (formerly Lithium
       Production Capability, Y-12).......
      18-D-650, Tritium Finishing                 27,000         27,000
       Facility, SRS......................
      17-D-640, U1a Complex Enhancements          35,000         35,000
       Project, NNSS......................
      15-D-612, Emergency Operations               5,000          5,000
       Center, LLNL.......................
      15-D-611, Emergency Operations               4,000          4,000
       Center, SNL........................
      15-D-301, HE Science & Engineering         123,000        123,000
       Facility, PX.......................
      06-D-141 Uranium processing facility       745,000        745,000
       Y-12, Oak Ridge, TN................
      04-D-125, Chemistry and Metallurgy         168,444        168,444
       Research Replacement Project, LANL.
    Total, Construction...................     1,145,444      1,145,444
  Total, Infrastructure and operations....     3,208,442      3,208,442
 
  Secure transportation asset
    Operations and equipment..............       209,502        209,502
    Program direction.....................       107,660        107,660
  Total, Secure transportation asset......       317,162        317,162
 
  Defense nuclear security
    Operations and maintenance............       778,213        765,000
      Excess to need......................                     [-13,213]
  Total, Defense nuclear security.........       778,213        765,000
 
  Information technology and cybersecurity       309,362        309,362
 
  Legacy contractor pensions..............        91,200         91,200
Total, Weapons Activities.................    12,408,603     12,444,780
 
 
Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation
  Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation
   Programs
    Global material security
      International nuclear security......        48,839         48,839
      Domestic radiological security......        90,513         90,513
      International radiological security.        60,827         78,907
        Secure additional radiologic                            [18,080]
         materials........................
      Nuclear smuggling detection and            142,171        142,171
       deterrence.........................
    Total, Global material security.......       342,350        360,430
 
    Material management and minimization
      HEU reactor conversion..............       114,000         99,000
        Program decrease..................                     [-15,000]
      Nuclear material removal............        32,925         32,925
      Material disposition................       186,608        186,608
    Total, Material management &                 333,533        318,533
     minimization.........................
 
    Nonproliferation and arms control.....       137,267        137,267
    Defense nuclear nonproliferation R&D..;       495,357        499,789
      Additional verification and                                [4,432]
       detection effort...................
    Nonproliferation Construction:
      18-D-150 Surplus Plutonium                  79,000         79,000
       Disposition Project................
      99-D-143 Mixed Oxide (MOX) Fuel            220,000        220,000
       Fabrication Facility, SRS..........
    Low-enriched uranium research and                  0         20,000
     development..........................
      Program increase....................                      [20,000]
    Total, Nonproliferation construction..       299,000        299,000
  Total, Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation      1,607,507      1,635,019
   Programs...............................
 
  Legacy contractor pensions..............        13,700         13,700
  Nuclear counterterrorism and incident          372,095        372,095
   response program.......................
  DPRK phased denuclearization long-term               0
   monitoring and verification............
Total, Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation...     1,993,302      2,020,814
 
 
Naval Reactors
  Naval reactors development..............       531,205        516,205
    Unjustified growth....................                     [-15,000]
  Columbia-Class reactor systems                  75,500         75,500
   development............................
  S8G Prototype refueling.................       155,000        155,000
  Naval reactors operations and                  553,591        553,591
   infrastructure.........................
  Construction:
    20-D-931, KL Fuel Development                 23,700         23,700
     Laboratory...........................
    19-D-930, KS Overhead Piping..........        20,900         20,900
    14-D-901 Spent fuel handling                 238,000        238,000
     recapitalization project, NRF........
  Total, Construction.....................       282,600        282,600
  Program direction.......................        50,500         50,500
Total, Naval Reactors.....................     1,648,396      1,633,396
 
 
Federal Salaries And Expenses
  Program direction.......................       434,699        434,699
Total, Office Of The Administrator........       434,699        434,699
 
 
Defense Environmental Cleanup
  Closure sites:
    Closure sites administration..........         4,987          4,987
 
  Richland:
    River corridor and other cleanup             139,750        139,750
     operations...........................
    Central plateau remediation...........       472,949        522,949
      Program increase....................                      [50,000]
    Richland community and regulatory              5,121          5,121
     support..............................
    Construction:
      18-D-404 WESF Modifications and             11,000         11,000
       Capsule Storage....................
    Total, Construction...................        11,000         11,000
  Total, Hanford site.....................       628,820        678,820
 
  Office of River Protection:
    Waste Treatment Immobilization Plant          15,000         15,000
     Commissioning........................
    Rad liquid tank waste stabilization          677,460        705,460
     and disposition......................
      Program increase....................                      [28,000]
    Construction:
      18-D-16 Waste treatment and                640,000        640,000
       immobilization plant--LBL/Direct
       feed LAW...........................
      01-D-16 D, High-level waste facility        30,000         25,000
        Program decrease..................                      [-5,000]
      01-D-16 E--Pretreatment Facility....        20,000         15,000
        Program decrease..................                      [-5,000]
    Total, Construction...................       690,000        680,000
 
    ORP Low-level waste offsite disposal..        10,000         10,000
 
  Total, Office of River Protection.......     1,392,460      1,410,460
 
  Idaho National Laboratory:
    Idaho cleanup and waste disposition...       331,354        331,354
    Idaho community and regulatory support         3,500          3,500
  Total, Idaho National Laboratory........       334,854        334,854
 
  NNSA sites and Nevada off-sites
    Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory         1,727          1,727
    LLNL Excess facilities D&D............;       128,000         55,000
      Program decrease....................                     [-73,000]
    Nuclear facility D & D
      Separations Process Research Unit...        15,300         15,300
      Nevada..............................        60,737         60,737
      Sandia National Laboratories........         2,652          2,652
      Los Alamos National Laboratory......       195,462        195,462
  Total, NNSA sites and Nevada off-sites..       403,878        330,878
 
  Oak Ridge Reservation:
    OR Nuclear facility D & D.............        93,693         93,693
    Total, OR Nuclear facility D & D......        93,693         93,693
 
    U233 Disposition Program..............        45,000         45,000
 
    OR cleanup and waste disposition
      OR cleanup and disposition..........        82,000         82,000
      Construction:
        17-D-401 On-site waste disposal           15,269         10,000
         facility.........................
          Program decrease................                      [-5,269]
        14-D-403 Outfall 200 Mercury              49,000         49,000
         Treatment Facility...............
      Total, Construction.................        64,269         59,000
    Total, OR cleanup and waste                  146,269        141,000
     disposition..........................
 
    OR community & regulatory support.....         4,819          4,819
    OR technology development and                  3,000          3,000
     deployment...........................
  Total, Oak Ridge Reservation............       292,781        287,512
 
  Savannah River Sites:
    Savannah River risk management
     operations
      Savannah River risk management             490,613        515,613
       operations.........................
      Construction:
        18-D-402, Emergency Operations             6,792          6,792
         Center...........................
    Total, risk management operations.....       497,405        522,405
 
    SR community and regulatory support...         4,749         11,249
      Radioactive liquid tank waste              797,706        797,706
       stabilization and disposition......
      Construction:
        20-D-402 Advanced Manufacturing           50,000         50,000
         Collaborative Facility (AMC).....
        20-D-401 Saltstone Disposal Unit             500            500
         #10, 11, 12......................
        19-D-701 SR Security sytem                     0
         replacement......................
        18-D-402 Saltstone Disposal Unit          51,750         51,750
         #8/9.............................
        17-D-402 Saltstone Disposal Unit          40,034         40,034
         #7...............................
        05-D-405 Salt waste processing            20,988         20,988
         facility, Savannah River Site....
      Total, Construction.................       163,272        163,272
  Total, Savannah River site..............     1,463,132      1,494,632
 
  Waste Isolation Pilot Plant
    Waste Isolation Pilot Plant...........       299,088        299,088
    Construction:
      15-D-411 Safety significant                 58,054         58,054
       confinement ventilation system,
       WIPP...............................
      15-D-412 Exhaust shaft, WIPP........        34,500         34,500
    Total, Construction...................        92,554         92,554
  Total, Waste Isolation Pilot Plant......       391,642        391,642
 
  Program direction.......................       278,908        278,908
  Program support.........................        12,979         12,979
  Safeguards and Security
    Safeguards and Security...............       317,622        317,622
  Total, Safeguards and Security..........       317,622        317,622
 
  Use of prior year balances..............       -15,562        -15,562
Total, Defense Environmental Cleanup......     5,506,501      5,527,732
 
Other Defense Activities
  Environment, health, safety and security
    Environment, health, safety and              139,628        139,628
     security.............................
    Program direction.....................        72,881         72,881
  Total, Environment, Health, Safety and         212,509        212,509
   Security...............................
 
  Independent enterprise assessments
    Independent enterprise assessments....        24,068         24,068
    Program direction.....................        57,211         54,711
      Non-defense function realignment....                      [-2,500]
  Total, Independent enterprise                   81,279         78,779
   assessments............................
 
  Specialized security activities.........       254,578        254,578
  Office of Legacy Management
    Legacy management.....................       283,767        142,767
      Program decrease....................                    [-141,000]
    Program direction.....................        19,262         19,262
  Total, Office of Legacy Management......       303,029        162,029
 
  Defense related administrative support
    Chief financial officer...............        54,538         54,538
    Chief information officer.............       124,554        118,554
      Program decrease....................                      [-6,000]
  Total, Defense related administrative          179,092        173,092
   support................................
 
  Office of Hearings and Appeals..........         4,852          4,852
Subtotal, Other Defense Activities........     1,035,339        885,839
Total, Other Defense Activities...........     1,035,339        885,839
 
 
Defense Nuclear Waste Disposal
  Yucca Mountain and interim storage......        26,000              0
    Program cut...........................             0       [-26,000]
Total, Defense Nuclear Waste Disposal.....        26,000              0
------------------------------------------------------------------------


 DIVISION E--INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATIONS FOR FISCAL YEARS 2018, 2019, 
                                AND 2020

SECTION 5001. SHORT TITLE.
    This division may be cited as the ``Damon Paul Nelson and Matthew 
Young Pollard Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 2018, 
2019, and 2020''.
SEC. 5002. SUBDIVISIONS AND TABLE OF CONTENTS.
    (a) Divisions.--This division is organized into two subdivisions as 
follows:
        (1) Subdivision 1--Intelligence Authorizations for Fiscal Year 
    2020.
        (2) Subdivision 2--Intelligence Authorizations for Fiscal Years 
    2018 and 2019.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this division is 
as follows:

DIVISION E--INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATIONS FOR FISCAL YEARS 2018, 2019, AND 
                                  2020

Sec. 5001. Short title.
Sec. 5002. Subdivisions and table of contents.
Sec. 5003. Definitions.

     Subdivision 1--Intelligence Authorizations for Fiscal Year 2020

Sec. 5100. Table of contents.

                    TITLE LI--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 5101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 5102. Classified schedule of authorizations.
Sec. 5103. Intelligence community management account.

 TITLE LII--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

Sec. 5201. Authorization of appropriations.

               TITLE LIII--INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MATTERS

           Subtitle A--General Intelligence Community Matters

Sec. 5301. Restriction on conduct of intelligence activities.
Sec. 5302. Increase in employee compensation and benefits authorized by 
          law.
Sec. 5303. Expansion of scope of protections for identities of covert 
          agents.
Sec. 5304. Required counterintelligence assessments, briefings, 
          notifications, and reports.
Sec. 5305. Inclusion of security risks in program management plans 
          required for acquisition of major systems in National 
          Intelligence Program.
Sec. 5306. Intelligence community public-private talent exchange.
Sec. 5307. Assessment of contracting practices to identify certain 
          security and counterintelligence concerns.

       Subtitle B--Office of the Director of National Intelligence

Sec. 5321. Establishment of Climate Security Advisory Council.
Sec. 5322. Foreign Malign Influence Response Center.
Sec. 5323. Encouragement of cooperative actions to detect and counter 
          foreign influence operations.
Sec. 5324. Transfer of National Intelligence University to the Office of 
          the Director of National Intelligence.

       Subtitle C--Inspector General of the Intelligence Community

Sec. 5331. Definitions.
Sec. 5332. Inspector General external review panel.
Sec. 5333. Harmonization of whistleblower processes and procedures.
Sec. 5334. Oversight by Inspector General of the Intelligence Community 
          over intelligence community whistleblower matters.
Sec. 5335. Report on cleared whistleblower attorneys.

                 Subtitle D--Central Intelligence Agency

Sec. 5341. Clarification of certain authority of the Central 
          Intelligence Agency.

                     TITLE LIV--SECURITY CLEARANCES

Sec. 5401. Improving visibility into the security clearance process.
Sec. 5402. Making certain policies and execution plans relating to 
          personnel clearances available to industry partners.

             TITLE LV--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN COUNTRIES

                 Subtitle A--Matters Relating to Russia

Sec. 5501. Annual reports on influence operations and campaigns in the 
          United States by the Russian Federation.
Sec. 5502. Assessment of legitimate and illegitimate financial and other 
          assets of Vladimir Putin.
Sec. 5503. Assessments of intentions of political leadership of the 
          Russian Federation.

                  Subtitle B--Matters Relating to China

Sec. 5511. Annual reports on influence operations and campaigns in the 
          United States by the Communist Party of China.
Sec. 5512. Report on repression of ethnic Muslim minorities in the 
          Xinjiang region of the People's Republic of China.
Sec. 5513. Report on efforts by People's Republic of China to influence 
          election in Taiwan.

             Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Other Countries

Sec. 5521. Sense of Congress and report on Iranian efforts in Syria and 
          Lebanon.
Sec. 5522. Assessments regarding the Northern Triangle and Mexico.

          TITLE LVI--FEDERAL EFFORTS AGAINST DOMESTIC TERRORISM

Sec. 5601. Definitions.
Sec. 5602. Strategic intelligence assessment of and reports on domestic 
          terrorism.

                  TITLE LVII--REPORTS AND OTHER MATTERS

                    Subtitle A--Reports and Briefings

Sec. 5701.  Modification of requirements for submission to Congress of 
          certain reports.
Sec. 5702. Increased transparency regarding counterterrorism budget of 
          the United States.
Sec. 5703. Study on role of retired and former personnel of intelligence 
          community with respect to certain foreign intelligence 
          operations.
Sec. 5704. Collection, analysis, and dissemination of workforce data.
Sec. 5705. Plan for strengthening the supply chain intelligence 
          function.
Sec. 5706. Comprehensive economic assessment of investment in key United 
          States technologies by companies or organizations linked to 
          China.
Sec. 5707. Report by Director of National Intelligence on fifth-
          generation wireless network technology.
Sec. 5708. Report on use by intelligence community of facial recognition 
          technology.
Sec. 5709. Report on deepfake technology, foreign weaponization of 
          deepfakes, and related notifications.
Sec. 5710. Annual report by Comptroller General of the United States on 
          cybersecurity and surveillance threats to Congress.
Sec. 5711. Analysis of and periodic briefings on major initiatives of 
          intelligence community in artificial intelligence and machine 
          learning.
Sec. 5712. Report on best practices to protect privacy and civil 
          liberties of Chinese Americans.
Sec. 5713. Oversight of foreign influence in academia.
Sec. 5714. Report on death of Jamal Khashoggi.
Sec. 5715. Report on terrorist screening database.
Sec. 5716. Report containing threat assessment on terrorist use of 
          conventional and advanced conventional weapons.
Sec. 5717. Assessment of homeland security vulnerabilities associated 
          with certain retired and former personnel of the intelligence 
          community.
Sec. 5718. Study on feasibility and advisability of establishing 
          Geospatial-Intelligence Museum and learning center.

                        Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 5721. Whistleblower disclosures to Congress and committees of 
          Congress.
Sec. 5722. Task force on illicit financing of espionage and foreign 
          influence operations.
Sec. 5723. Establishment of fifth-generation technology prize 
          competition.
Sec. 5724. Establishment of deepfakes prize competition.
Sec. 5725. Identification of and countermeasures against certain 
          International Mobile Subscriber Identity-catchers.
Sec. 5726. Securing energy infrastructure.

  Subdivision 2--Intelligence Authorizations for Fiscal Years 2018 and 
                                  2019

Sec. 6100. Table of contents.

                   TITLE LXI--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 6101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 6102. Intelligence Community Management Account.

TITLE LXII--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

Sec. 6201. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 6202. Computation of annuities for employees of the Central 
          Intelligence Agency.

           TITLE LXIII--GENERAL INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MATTERS

Sec. 6301. Restriction on conduct of intelligence activities.
Sec. 6302. Increase in employee compensation and benefits authorized by 
          law.
Sec. 6303. Modification of special pay authority for science, 
          technology, engineering, or mathematics positions and addition 
          of special pay authority for cyber positions.
Sec. 6304. Modification of appointment of Chief Information Officer of 
          the Intelligence Community.
Sec. 6305. Director of National Intelligence review of placement of 
          positions within the intelligence community on the Executive 
          Schedule.
Sec. 6306. Supply Chain and Counterintelligence Risk Management Task 
          Force.
Sec. 6307. Consideration of adversarial telecommunications and 
          cybersecurity infrastructure when sharing intelligence with 
          foreign governments and entities.
Sec. 6308. Cyber protection support for the personnel of the 
          intelligence community in positions highly vulnerable to cyber 
          attack.
Sec. 6309. Elimination of sunset of authority relating to management of 
          supply-chain risk.
Sec. 6310. Limitations on determinations regarding certain security 
          classifications.
Sec. 6311. Joint Intelligence Community Council.
Sec. 6312. Intelligence community information technology environment.
Sec. 6313. Report on development of secure mobile voice solution for 
          intelligence community.
Sec. 6314. Policy on minimum insider threat standards.
Sec. 6315. Submission of intelligence community policies.
Sec. 6316. Expansion of intelligence community recruitment efforts.

 TITLE LXIV--MATTERS RELATING TO ELEMENTS OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY

       Subtitle A--Office of the Director of National Intelligence

Sec. 6401. Authority for protection of current and former employees of 
          the Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
Sec. 6402. Designation of the program manager-information-sharing 
          environment.
Sec. 6403. Technical modification to the executive schedule.
Sec. 6404. Chief Financial Officer of the Intelligence Community.
Sec. 6405. Chief Information Officer of the Intelligence Community.

                 Subtitle B--Central Intelligence Agency

Sec. 6411. Central Intelligence Agency subsistence for personnel 
          assigned to austere locations.
Sec. 6412. Special rules for certain monthly workers' compensation 
          payments and other payments for Central Intelligence Agency 
          personnel.
Sec. 6413. Expansion of security protective service jurisdiction of the 
          Central Intelligence Agency.
Sec. 6414. Repeal of foreign language proficiency requirement for 
          certain senior level positions in the Central Intelligence 
          Agency.

Subtitle C--Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence of Department 
                                of Energy

Sec. 6421. Consolidation of Department of Energy Offices of Intelligence 
          and Counterintelligence.
Sec. 6422. Repeal of Department of Energy Intelligence Executive 
          Committee and budget reporting requirement.

                       Subtitle D--Other Elements

Sec. 6431. Plan for designation of counterintelligence component of 
          Defense Security Service as an element of intelligence 
          community.
Sec. 6432. Notice not required for private entities.
Sec. 6433. Establishment of advisory board for National Reconnaissance 
          Office.
Sec. 6434. Collocation of certain Department of Homeland Security 
          personnel at field locations.

                       TITLE LXV--ELECTION MATTERS

Sec. 6501. Report on cyber attacks by foreign governments against United 
          States election infrastructure.
Sec. 6502. Review of intelligence community's posture to collect against 
          and analyze Russian efforts to influence the Presidential 
          election.
Sec. 6503. Assessment of foreign intelligence threats to Federal 
          elections.
Sec. 6504. Strategy for countering Russian cyber threats to United 
          States elections.
Sec. 6505. Assessment of significant Russian influence campaigns 
          directed at foreign elections and referenda.
Sec. 6506. Information sharing with State election officials.
Sec. 6507. Notification of significant foreign cyber intrusions and 
          active measures campaigns directed at elections for Federal 
          offices.
Sec. 6508. Designation of counterintelligence officer to lead election 
          security matters.

                     TITLE LXVI--SECURITY CLEARANCES

Sec. 6601. Definitions.
Sec. 6602. Reports and plans relating to security clearances and 
          background investigations.
Sec. 6603. Improving the process for security clearances.
Sec. 6604. Goals for promptness of determinations regarding security 
          clearances.
Sec. 6605. Security Executive Agent.
Sec. 6606. Report on unified, simplified, Governmentwide standards for 
          positions of trust and security clearances.
Sec. 6607. Report on clearance in person concept.
Sec. 6608. Reports on reciprocity for security clearances inside of 
          departments and agencies.
Sec. 6609. Intelligence community reports on security clearances.
Sec. 6610. Periodic report on positions in the intelligence community 
          that can be conducted without access to classified 
          information, networks, or facilities.
Sec. 6611. Information-sharing program for positions of trust and 
          security clearances.
Sec. 6612. Report on protections for confidentiality of whistleblower-
          related communications.
Sec. 6613. Reports on costs of security clearance background 
          investigations.

                 TITLE LXVII--REPORTS AND OTHER MATTERS

     Subtitle A--Matters Relating to Russia and Other Foreign Powers

Sec. 6701. Limitation relating to establishment or support of 
          cybersecurity unit with the Russian Federation.
Sec. 6702. Assessment of threat finance relating to Russia.
Sec. 6703. Notification of an active measures campaign.
Sec. 6704. Notification of travel by accredited diplomatic and consular 
          personnel of the Russian Federation in the United States.
Sec. 6705. Report and annual briefing on Iranian expenditures supporting 
          foreign military and terrorist activities.
Sec. 6706. Expansion of scope of committee to counter active measures.

                           Subtitle B--Reports

Sec. 6711. Technical correction to Inspector General study.
Sec. 6712. Reports on authorities of the Chief Intelligence Officer of 
          the Department of Homeland Security.
Sec. 6713. Review of intelligence community whistleblower matters.
Sec. 6714. Report on role of Director of National Intelligence with 
          respect to certain foreign investments.
Sec. 6715. Report on surveillance by foreign governments against United 
          States telecommunications networks.
Sec. 6716. Biennial report on foreign investment risks.
Sec. 6717. Modification of certain reporting requirement on travel of 
          foreign diplomats.
Sec. 6718. Semiannual reports on investigations of unauthorized 
          disclosures of classified information.
Sec. 6719. Congressional notification of designation of covered 
          intelligence officer as persona non grata.
Sec. 6720. Reports on intelligence community participation in 
          vulnerabilities equities process of Federal Government.
Sec. 6721. Inspectors General reports on classification.
Sec. 6722. Reports and briefings on national security effects of global 
          water insecurity and emerging infectious disease and 
          pandemics.
Sec. 6723. Annual report on memoranda of understanding between elements 
          of intelligence community and other entities of the United 
          States Government regarding significant operational activities 
          or policy.
Sec. 6724. Study on the feasibility of encrypting unclassified wireline 
          and wireless telephone calls.
Sec. 6725. Reports on intelligence community loan repayment and related 
          programs.
Sec. 6726. Repeal of certain reporting requirements.
Sec. 6727. Inspector General of the Intelligence Community report on 
          senior executives of the Office of the Director of National 
          Intelligence.
Sec. 6728. Briefing on Federal Bureau of Investigation offering 
          permanent residence to sources and cooperators.
Sec. 6729. Intelligence assessment of North Korea revenue sources.
Sec. 6730. Report on possible exploitation of virtual currencies by 
          terrorist actors.

                        Subtitle C--Other Matters

Sec. 6741. Public Interest Declassification Board.
Sec. 6742. Technical and clerical amendments to the National Security 
          Act of 1947.
Sec. 6743. Bug bounty programs.
Sec. 6744. Technical amendments related to the Department of Energy.
Sec. 6745. Sense of Congress on notification of certain disclosures of 
          classified information.
Sec. 6746. Sense of Congress on consideration of espionage activities 
          when considering whether or not to provide visas to foreign 
          individuals to be accredited to a United Nations mission in 
          the United States.
Sec. 6747. Sense of Congress on WikiLeaks.
SEC. 5003. DEFINITIONS.
    In this division:
        (1) Congressional intelligence committees.--The term 
    ``congressional intelligence committees'' has the meaning given 
    such term in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
    U.S.C. 3003).
        (2) Intelligence community.--The term ``intelligence 
    community'' has the meaning given such term in section 3 of the 
    National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).

    SUBDIVISION 1--INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020

SEC. 5100. TABLE OF CONTENTS.
    The table of contents for this subdivision is as follows:

Sec. 5100. Table of contents.

                    TITLE LI--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 5101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 5102. Classified schedule of authorizations.
Sec. 5103. Intelligence community management account.

 TITLE LII--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

Sec. 5201. Authorization of appropriations.

               TITLE LIII--INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MATTERS

           Subtitle A--General Intelligence Community Matters

Sec. 5301. Restriction on conduct of intelligence activities.
Sec. 5302. Increase in employee compensation and benefits authorized by 
          law.
Sec. 5303. Expansion of scope of protections for identities of covert 
          agents.
Sec. 5304. Required counterintelligence assessments, briefings, 
          notifications, and reports.
Sec. 5305. Inclusion of security risks in program management plans 
          required for acquisition of major systems in National 
          Intelligence Program.
Sec. 5306. Intelligence community public-private talent exchange.
Sec. 5307. Assessment of contracting practices to identify certain 
          security and counterintelligence concerns.

       Subtitle B--Office of the Director of National Intelligence

Sec. 5321. Establishment of Climate Security Advisory Council.
Sec. 5322. Foreign Malign Influence Response Center.
Sec. 5323. Encouragement of cooperative actions to detect and counter 
          foreign influence operations.
Sec. 5324. Transfer of National Intelligence University to the Office of 
          the Director of National Intelligence.

       Subtitle C--Inspector General of the Intelligence Community

Sec. 5331. Definitions.
Sec. 5332. Inspector General external review panel.
Sec. 5333. Harmonization of whistleblower processes and procedures.
Sec. 5334. Oversight by Inspector General of the Intelligence Community 
          over intelligence community whistleblower matters.
Sec. 5335. Report on cleared whistleblower attorneys.

                 Subtitle D--Central Intelligence Agency

Sec. 5341. Clarification of certain authority of the Central 
          Intelligence Agency.

                     TITLE LIV--SECURITY CLEARANCES

Sec. 5401. Improving visibility into the security clearance process.
Sec. 5402. Making certain policies and execution plans relating to 
          personnel clearances available to industry partners.

             TITLE LV--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN COUNTRIES

                 Subtitle A--Matters Relating to Russia

Sec. 5501. Annual reports on influence operations and campaigns in the 
          United States by the Russian Federation.
Sec. 5502. Assessment of legitimate and illegitimate financial and other 
          assets of Vladimir Putin.
Sec. 5503. Assessments of intentions of political leadership of the 
          Russian Federation.

                  Subtitle B--Matters Relating to China

Sec. 5511. Annual reports on influence operations and campaigns in the 
          United States by the Communist Party of China.
Sec. 5512. Report on repression of ethnic Muslim minorities in the 
          Xinjiang region of the People's Republic of China.
Sec. 5513. Report on efforts by People's Republic of China to influence 
          election in Taiwan.

             Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Other Countries

Sec. 5521. Sense of Congress and report on Iranian efforts in Syria and 
          Lebanon.
Sec. 5522. Assessments regarding the Northern Triangle and Mexico.

          TITLE LVI--FEDERAL EFFORTS AGAINST DOMESTIC TERRORISM

Sec. 5601. Definitions.
Sec. 5602. Strategic intelligence assessment of and reports on domestic 
          terrorism.

                  TITLE LVII--REPORTS AND OTHER MATTERS

                    Subtitle A--Reports and Briefings

Sec. 5701.  Modification of requirements for submission to Congress of 
          certain reports.
Sec. 5702. Increased transparency regarding counterterrorism budget of 
          the United States.
Sec. 5703. Study on role of retired and former personnel of intelligence 
          community with respect to certain foreign intelligence 
          operations.
Sec. 5704. Collection, analysis, and dissemination of workforce data.
Sec. 5705. Plan for strengthening the supply chain intelligence 
          function.
Sec. 5706. Comprehensive economic assessment of investment in key United 
          States technologies by companies or organizations linked to 
          China.
Sec. 5707. Report by Director of National Intelligence on fifth-
          generation wireless network technology.
Sec. 5708. Report on use by intelligence community of facial recognition 
          technology.
Sec. 5709. Report on deepfake technology, foreign weaponization of 
          deepfakes, and related notifications.
Sec. 5710. Annual report by Comptroller General of the United States on 
          cybersecurity and surveillance threats to Congress.
Sec. 5711. Analysis of and periodic briefings on major initiatives of 
          intelligence community in artificial intelligence and machine 
          learning.
Sec. 5712. Report on best practices to protect privacy and civil 
          liberties of Chinese Americans.
Sec. 5713. Oversight of foreign influence in academia.
Sec. 5714. Report on death of Jamal Khashoggi.
Sec. 5715. Report on terrorist screening database.
Sec. 5716. Report containing threat assessment on terrorist use of 
          conventional and advanced conventional weapons.
Sec. 5717. Assessment of homeland security vulnerabilities associated 
          with certain retired and former personnel of the intelligence 
          community.
Sec. 5718. Study on feasibility and advisability of establishing 
          Geospatial-Intelligence Museum and learning center.

                        Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 5721. Whistleblower disclosures to Congress and committees of 
          Congress.
Sec. 5722. Task force on illicit financing of espionage and foreign 
          influence operations.
Sec. 5723. Establishment of fifth-generation technology prize 
          competition.
Sec. 5724. Establishment of deepfakes prize competition.
Sec. 5725. Identification of and countermeasures against certain 
          International Mobile Subscriber Identity-catchers.
Sec. 5726. Securing energy infrastructure.

                   TITLE LI--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

SEC. 5101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the conduct of the intelligence and intelligence-related activities 
of the following elements of the United States Government:
        (1) The Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
        (2) The Central Intelligence Agency.
        (3) The Department of Defense.
        (4) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
        (5) The National Security Agency.
        (6) The Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, and 
    the Department of the Air Force.
        (7) The Coast Guard.
        (8) The Department of State.
        (9) The Department of the Treasury.
        (10) The Department of Energy.
        (11) The Department of Justice.
        (12) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
        (13) The Drug Enforcement Administration.
        (14) The National Reconnaissance Office.
        (15) The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.
        (16) The Department of Homeland Security.
SEC. 5102. CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE OF AUTHORIZATIONS.
    (a) Specifications of Amounts.--The amounts authorized to be 
appropriated under section 5101 for the conduct of the intelligence 
activities of the elements listed in paragraphs (1) through (16) of 
section 5101, are those specified in the classified Schedule of 
Authorizations prepared to accompany this division.
    (b) Availability of Classified Schedule of Authorizations.--
        (1) Availability.--The classified Schedule of Authorizations 
    referred to in subsection (a) shall be made available to the 
    Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, the Committee on 
    Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and to the 
    President.
        (2) Distribution by the president.--Subject to paragraph (3), 
    the President shall provide for suitable distribution of the 
    classified Schedule of Authorizations referred to in subsection 
    (a), or of appropriate portions of such Schedule, within the 
    executive branch.
        (3) Limits on disclosure.--The President shall not publicly 
    disclose the classified Schedule of Authorizations or any portion 
    of such Schedule except--
            (A) as provided in section 601(a) of the Implementing 
        Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007 (50 U.S.C. 
        3306(a));
            (B) to the extent necessary to implement the budget; or
            (C) as otherwise required by law.
SEC. 5103. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT ACCOUNT.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for the Intelligence Community Management Account of the 
Director of National Intelligence for fiscal year 2020 the sum of 
$565,637,000.
    (b) Classified Authorization of Appropriations.--In addition to 
amounts authorized to be appropriated for the Intelligence Community 
Management Account by subsection (a), there are authorized to be 
appropriated for the Intelligence Community Management Account for 
fiscal year 2020 such additional amounts as are specified in the 
classified Schedule of Authorizations referred to in section 5102(a).

TITLE LII--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

SEC. 5201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    There is authorized to be appropriated for the Central Intelligence 
Agency Retirement and Disability Fund $514,000,000 for fiscal year 
2020.

               TITLE LIII--INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MATTERS
           Subtitle A--General Intelligence Community Matters

SEC. 5301. RESTRICTION ON CONDUCT OF INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
    The authorization of appropriations by this subdivision shall not 
be deemed to constitute authority for the conduct of any intelligence 
activity which is not otherwise authorized by the Constitution or the 
laws of the United States.
SEC. 5302. INCREASE IN EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS AUTHORIZED BY 
LAW.
    Appropriations authorized by this subdivision for salary, pay, 
retirement, and other benefits for Federal employees may be increased 
by such additional or supplemental amounts as may be necessary for 
increases in such compensation or benefits authorized by law.
SEC. 5303. EXPANSION OF SCOPE OF PROTECTIONS FOR IDENTITIES OF COVERT 
AGENTS.
    Section 605(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3126(4)) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (A)--
            (A) by striking clause (ii);
            (B) in clause (i), by striking ``, and'' and inserting ``; 
        or''; and
            (C) by striking ``agency--'' and all that follows through 
        ``whose identity'' and inserting ``agency whose identity''; and
        (2) in subparagraph (B)(i), by striking ``resides and acts 
    outside the United States'' and inserting ``acts''.
SEC. 5304. REQUIRED COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASSESSMENTS, BRIEFINGS, 
NOTIFICATIONS, AND REPORTS.
    (a) Foreign Counterintelligence and Cybersecurity Threats to 
Federal Election Campaigns.--
        (1) Reports required.--
            (A) In general.--As provided in subparagraph (B), with 
        respect to an election for Federal office, the Director of 
        National Intelligence, in coordination with the Under Secretary 
        of Homeland Security for Intelligence and Analysis and the 
        Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, shall make 
        publicly available on an internet website an advisory report on 
        foreign counterintelligence and cybersecurity threats to 
        campaigns of candidates for Federal office. Each such report, 
        consistent with the protection of sources and methods, shall 
        include the following:
                (i) A description of foreign counterintelligence and 
            cybersecurity threats to campaigns of candidates for 
            Federal office.
                (ii) A summary of best practices that campaigns of 
            candidates for Federal office can employ in seeking to 
            counter such threats.
                (iii) An identification of publicly available 
            resources, including United States Government resources, 
            for countering such threats.
            (B) Schedule for submittal.--
                (i) In general.--Except as provided by clause (ii), 
            with respect to an election for Federal office, a report 
            under this subsection shall be first made available not 
            later than the date that is 1 year before the date of such 
            election, and may be subsequently revised as the Director 
            of National Intelligence determines appropriate.
                (ii) 2020 elections.--With respect to an election for 
            Federal office that occurs during 2020, the report under 
            this subsection shall be first made available not later 
            than the date that is 60 days after the date of the 
            enactment this Act, and may be subsequently revised as the 
            Director of National Intelligence determines appropriate.
            (C) Information to be included.--A report under this 
        subsection shall reflect the most current information available 
        to the Director of National Intelligence regarding foreign 
        counterintelligence and cybersecurity threats.
        (2) Treatment of campaigns subject to heightened threats.--If 
    the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Under 
    Secretary of Homeland Security for Intelligence and Analysis 
    jointly determine that a campaign of a candidate for Federal office 
    is subject to a heightened foreign counterintelligence or 
    cybersecurity threat, the Director and the Under Secretary, 
    consistent with the protection of sources and methods, may make 
    available additional information to the appropriate representatives 
    of such campaign.
    (b) Briefings on Counterintelligence Activities of the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation.--
        (1) In general.--Title V of the National Security Act of 1947 
    (50 U.S.C. 3091 et seq.), is amended by adding at the end the 
    following new section:
    ``SEC. 512. BRIEFINGS AND NOTIFICATIONS ON COUNTERINTELLIGENCE 
      ACTIVITIES OF THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION.
    ``(a) Quarterly Briefings.--In addition to, and without any 
derogation of, the requirement under section 501 to keep the 
congressional intelligence committees fully and currently informed of 
the intelligence and counterintelligence activities of the United 
States, not less frequently than once each quarter, or more frequently 
if requested by the congressional intelligence committees, the Director 
of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall provide to the 
congressional intelligence committees a briefing on the 
counterintelligence activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. 
Such briefings shall include, at a minimum, an overview and update of--
        ``(1) the counterintelligence posture of the Bureau;
        ``(2) counterintelligence investigations; and
        ``(3) any other information relating to the counterintelligence 
    activities of the Bureau that the Director determines necessary.
    ``(b) Notifications.--In addition to the quarterly briefings under 
subsection (a), the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
shall promptly notify the congressional intelligence committees of any 
counterintelligence investigation carried out by the Bureau with 
respect to any counterintelligence risk or threat that is related to an 
election or campaign for Federal office.
    ``(c) Guidelines.--
        ``(1) Development and consultation.--The Director shall develop 
    guidelines governing the scope of the briefings provided under 
    subsection (a), the notifications provided under subsection (b), 
    and the information required by section 5304(a)(2) of the Damon 
    Paul Nelson and Matthew Young Pollard Intelligence Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Years 2018, 2019, and 2020. The Director shall 
    consult the congressional intelligence committees during such 
    development.
        ``(2) Submission.--The Director shall submit to the 
    congressional intelligence committees--
            ``(A) the guidelines under paragraph (1) upon issuance; and
            ``(B) any updates to such guidelines by not later than 15 
        days after making such update.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents at the beginning 
    of such Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
    section 511 the following new item:

``Sec. 512. Briefings and notifications on counterintelligence 
          activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.''.

    (c) Director of National Intelligence Assessment of Foreign 
Interference in Federal Elections.--
        (1) Assessments required.--Not later than 45 days after the end 
    of a Federal election cycle, the Director of National Intelligence, 
    in consultation with the heads of such other executive departments 
    and agencies as the Director considers appropriate, shall--
            (A) conduct an assessment of any information indicating 
        that a foreign government, or any person acting as an agent of 
        or on behalf of a foreign government, has acted with the intent 
        or purpose of interfering in elections for Federal office 
        occurring during the Federal election cycle; and
            (B) transmit the findings of the Director with respect to 
        the assessment conducted under subparagraph (A), along with 
        such supporting information as the Director considers 
        appropriate, to the following:
                (i) The President.
                (ii) The Secretary of State.
                (iii) The Secretary of the Treasury.
                (iv) The Secretary of Defense.
                (v) The Attorney General.
                (vi) The Secretary of Homeland Security.
                (vii) Congress.
        (2) Elements.--An assessment conducted under paragraph (1)(A), 
    with respect to an act described in such paragraph, shall identify, 
    to the maximum extent ascertainable, the following:
            (A) The nature of any foreign interference and any methods 
        employed to execute the act.
            (B) The persons involved.
            (C) The foreign government or governments that authorized, 
        directed, sponsored, or supported the act.
        (3) Publication.--The Director shall, not later than 60 days 
    after the end of a Federal election cycle, make available to the 
    public, to the greatest extent possible consistent with the 
    protection of sources and methods, the findings transmitted under 
    paragraph (1)(B).
        (4) Federal election cycle defined.--In this section, the term 
    ``Federal election cycle'' means the period which begins on the day 
    after the date of a regularly scheduled general election for 
    Federal office and which ends on the date of the first regularly 
    scheduled general election for Federal office held after such date.
        (5) Effective date.--This subsection shall apply with respect 
    to the Federal election cycle that began during November 2018, and 
    each succeeding Federal election cycle.
SEC. 5305. INCLUSION OF SECURITY RISKS IN PROGRAM MANAGEMENT PLANS 
REQUIRED FOR ACQUISITION OF MAJOR SYSTEMS IN NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE 
PROGRAM.
    Section 102A(q)(1)(A) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3024(q)(1)(A)) is amended by inserting ``security risks,'' after 
``schedule,''.
SEC. 5306. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY PUBLIC-PRIVATE TALENT EXCHANGE.
    (a) Policies, Processes, and Procedures Required.--Not later than 
270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of 
National Intelligence shall develop policies, processes, and procedures 
to facilitate the rotation of personnel of the intelligence community 
to the private sector, and personnel from the private sector to the 
intelligence community.
    (b) Detail Authority.--Under policies developed by the Director 
pursuant to subsection (a), pursuant to a written agreement with a 
private-sector organization, and with the consent of the employee, a 
head of an element of the intelligence community may arrange for the 
temporary detail of an employee of such element to such private-sector 
organization, or from such private-sector organization to such element 
under this section.
    (c) Agreements.--
        (1) In general.--A head of an element of the intelligence 
    community exercising the authority of the head under subsection (a) 
    shall provide for a written agreement among the element of the 
    intelligence community, the private-sector organization, and the 
    employee concerned regarding the terms and conditions of the 
    employee's detail under this section. The agreement--
            (A) shall require that the employee of the element, upon 
        completion of the detail, serve in the element, or elsewhere in 
        the civil service if approved by the head of the element, for a 
        period that is at least equal to the length of the detail;
            (B) shall provide that if the employee of the element fails 
        to carry out the agreement, such employee shall be liable to 
        the United States for payment of all nonsalary and benefit 
        expenses of the detail, unless that failure was for good and 
        sufficient reason, as determined by the head of the element;
            (C) shall contain language informing such employee of the 
        prohibition on sharing, using, or otherwise improperly handling 
        classified or unclassified nonpublic information for the 
        benefit or advantage of the private-sector organization;
            (D) shall contain language governing the handling of 
        classified information by such employee during the detail; and
            (E) shall contain language requiring the employee to 
        acknowledge the obligations of the employee under section 1905 
        of title 18, United States Code.
        (2) Amount of liability.--An amount for which an employee is 
    liable under paragraph (1) shall be treated as a debt due the 
    United States.
        (3) Waiver.--The head of an element of the intelligence 
    community may waive, in whole or in part, collection of a debt 
    described in paragraph (2) based on a determination that the 
    collection would be against equity and good conscience and not in 
    the best interests of the United States, after taking into account 
    any indication of fraud, misrepresentation, fault, or lack of good 
    faith on the part of the employee.
    (d) Termination.--A detail under this section may, at any time and 
for any reason, be terminated by the head of the element of the 
intelligence community concerned or the private-sector organization 
concerned.
    (e) Duration.--
        (1) In general.--A detail under this section shall be for a 
    period of not less than 3 months and not more than 2 years, 
    renewable up to a total of 3 years.
        (2) Longer periods.--A detail under this section may be for a 
    period in excess of 2 years, but not more than 3 years, if the head 
    of the element making the detail determines that such detail is 
    necessary to meet critical mission or program requirements.
        (3) Limitation.--No employee of an element of the intelligence 
    community may be detailed under this section for more than a total 
    of 5 years, inclusive of all such details.
    (f) Status of Federal Employees Detailed to Private-Sector 
Organizations.--
        (1) In general.--An employee of an element of the intelligence 
    community who is detailed to a private-sector organization under 
    this section shall be considered, during the period of detail, to 
    be on a regular work assignment in the element. The written 
    agreement established under subsection (c)(1) shall address the 
    specific terms and conditions related to the employee's continued 
    status as a Federal employee.
        (2) Requirements.--In establishing a temporary detail of an 
    employee of an element of the intelligence community to a private-
    sector organization, the head of the element shall--
            (A) certify that the temporary detail of such employee 
        shall not have an adverse or negative impact on mission 
        attainment or organizational capabilities associated with the 
        detail; and
            (B) in the case of an element of the intelligence community 
        in the Department of Defense, ensure that the normal duties and 
        functions of such employees are not, as a result of and during 
        the course of such temporary detail, performed or augmented by 
        contractor personnel in violation of the provisions of section 
        2461 of title 10, United States Code.
    (g) Terms and Conditions for Private-Sector Employees.--An employee 
of a private-sector organization who is detailed to an element of the 
intelligence community under this section--
        (1) shall continue to receive pay and benefits from the 
    private-sector organization from which such employee is detailed 
    and shall not receive pay or benefits from the element, except as 
    provided in paragraph (2);
        (2) is deemed to be an employee of the element for the purposes 
    of--
            (A) chapters 73 and 81 of title 5, United States Code;
            (B) sections 201, 203, 205, 207, 208, 209, 603, 606, 607, 
        643, 654, 1905, and 1913 of title 18, United States Code;
            (C) sections 1343, 1344, and 1349(b) of title 31, United 
        States Code;
            (D) chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code (commonly 
        known as the ``Federal Tort Claims Act'') and any other Federal 
        tort liability statute;
            (E) the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.); 
        and
            (F) chapter 21 of title 41, United States Code;
        (3) may perform work that is considered inherently governmental 
    in nature only when requested in writing by the head of the 
    element;
        (4) may not be used to circumvent any limitation or restriction 
    on the size of the workforce of the element;
        (5) shall be subject to the same requirements applicable to an 
    employee performing the same functions and duties proposed for 
    performance by the private-sector employee; and
        (6) in the case of an element of the intelligence community in 
    the Department of Defense, may not be used to circumvent the 
    provisions of section 2461 of title 10, United States Code.
    (h) Prohibition Against Charging Certain Costs to the Federal 
Government.--A private-sector organization may not charge an element of 
the intelligence community or any other agency of the Federal 
Government, as direct costs under a Federal contract, the costs of pay 
or benefits paid by the organization to an employee detailed to an 
element of the intelligence community under this section for the period 
of the detail and any subsequent renewal periods.
    (i) Additional Administrative Matters.--In carrying out this 
section, the Director, pursuant to procedures developed under 
subsection (a)--
        (1) shall, to the degree practicable, ensure that small 
    business concerns are represented with respect to details 
    authorized by this section;
        (2) may, notwithstanding any other provision of law, establish 
    criteria for elements of the intelligence community to use 
    appropriated funds to reimburse small business concerns for the 
    salaries and benefits of its employees during the periods when the 
    small business concern agrees to detail its employees to the 
    intelligence community under this section;
        (3) shall take into consideration the question of how details 
    under this section might best be used to help meet the needs of the 
    intelligence community, including with respect to the training of 
    employees;
        (4) shall take into consideration areas of private-sector 
    expertise that are critical to the intelligence community; and
        (5) shall establish oversight mechanisms to determine whether 
    the public-private exchange authorized by this section improves the 
    efficiency and effectiveness of the intelligence community.
    (j) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Detail.--The term ``detail'' means, as appropriate in the 
    context in which such term is used--
            (A) the assignment or loan of an employee of an element of 
        the intelligence community to a private-sector organization 
        without a change of position from the intelligence community 
        element that employs the individual; or
            (B) the assignment or loan of an employee of a private-
        sector organization to an element of the intelligence community 
        without a change of position from the private-sector 
        organization that employs the individual.
        (2) Private-sector organization.--The term ``private-sector 
    organization'' means--
            (A) a for-profit organization; or
            (B) a not-for-profit organization.
        (3) Small business concern.--The term ``small business 
    concern'' has the meaning given such term in section 3703(e)(2) of 
    title 5, United States Code.
SEC. 5307. ASSESSMENT OF CONTRACTING PRACTICES TO IDENTIFY CERTAIN 
SECURITY AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE CONCERNS.
    (a) Assessment.--
        (1) Contracting practices.--The Director of National 
    Intelligence shall conduct an assessment of the authorities, 
    policies, processes, and standards used by the elements of the 
    intelligence community to ensure that the elements appropriately 
    weigh security and counterintelligence risks in awarding a contract 
    to a contractor that--
            (A) carries out any joint research and development 
        activities with a covered foreign country; or
            (B) performs any contract or other agreement entered into 
        with a covered foreign country.
        (2) Elements.--The assessment under paragraph (1) shall include 
    the following:
            (A) An assessment of whether the authorities, policies, 
        processes, and standards specified in paragraph (1) 
        sufficiently identify security and counterintelligence 
        concerns.
            (B) Identification of any authority gaps in such 
        authorities, policies, processes, and standards that prevent 
        the intelligence community from considering the activities 
        specified in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1) when 
        evaluating offers for a contract.
        (3) Consultation.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the Director 
    shall consult with each head of an element of the intelligence 
    community.
    (b) Report.--
        (1) Requirement.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to the 
    congressional intelligence committees a report on the assessment 
    under subsection (a)(1).
        (2) Matters included.--The report under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) The assessment under subsection (a)(1).
            (B) An identification of any known contractors that have--
                (i) carried out activities specified in subparagraphs 
            (A) and (B) of subsection (a)(1); and
                (ii) submitted an offer for a contract with an element 
            of the intelligence community.
            (C) A description of the steps that the Director and the 
        heads of the elements of the intelligence community took to 
        identify contractors under subparagraph (B).
        (3) Form.--The report under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in 
    unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (c) Covered Foreign Country Defined.--In this section, the term 
``covered foreign country'' means the government, or any entity 
affiliated with the military or intelligence services of, the following 
foreign countries:
        (1) The People's Republic of China.
        (2) The Russian Federation.
        (3) The Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
        (4) The Islamic Republic of Iran.
        (5) Such other countries as the Director considers appropriate.

      Subtitle B--Office of the Director of National Intelligence

SEC. 5321. ESTABLISHMENT OF CLIMATE SECURITY ADVISORY COUNCIL.
    (a) Establishment.--Title I of the National Security Act of 1947 
(50 U.S.C. 3021 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following 
new section:
    ``SEC. 120. CLIMATE SECURITY ADVISORY COUNCIL.
    ``(a) Establishment.--The Director of National Intelligence shall 
establish a Climate Security Advisory Council for the purpose of--
        ``(1) assisting intelligence analysts of various elements of 
    the intelligence community with respect to analysis of climate 
    security and its impact on the areas of focus of such analysts;
        ``(2) facilitating coordination between the elements of the 
    intelligence community and elements of the Federal Government that 
    are not elements of the intelligence community in collecting data 
    on, and conducting analysis of, climate change and climate 
    security; and
        ``(3) ensuring that the intelligence community is adequately 
    prioritizing climate change in carrying out its activities.
    ``(b) Composition of Council.--
        ``(1) Members.--The Council shall be composed of the following 
    individuals appointed by the Director of National Intelligence:
            ``(A) An appropriate official from the National 
        Intelligence Council, who shall chair the Council.
            ``(B) The lead official with respect to climate and 
        environmental security analysis from--
                ``(i) the Central Intelligence Agency;
                ``(ii) the Bureau of Intelligence and Research of the 
            Department of State;
                ``(iii) the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency;
                ``(iv) the Office of Intelligence and 
            Counterintelligence of the Department of Energy;
                ``(v) the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
            Intelligence; and
                ``(vi) the Defense Intelligence Agency.
            ``(C) Three appropriate officials from elements of the 
        Federal Government that are not elements of the intelligence 
        community that are responsible for--
                ``(i) providing decision makers with a predictive 
            understanding of the climate;
                ``(ii) making observations of our Earth system that can 
            be used by the public, policymakers, and to support 
            strategic decisions; or
                ``(iii) coordinating Federal research and investments 
            in understanding the forces shaping the global environment, 
            both human and natural, and their impacts on society.
            ``(D) Any other officials as the Director of National 
        Intelligence or the chair of the Council may determine 
        appropriate.
        ``(2) Responsibilities of chair.--The chair of the Council 
    shall have responsibility for--
            ``(A) identifying agencies to supply individuals from 
        elements of the Federal Government that are not elements of the 
        intelligence community;
            ``(B) securing the permission of the relevant agency heads 
        for the participation of such individuals on the Council; and
            ``(C) any other duties that the Director of National 
        Intelligence may direct.
    ``(c) Duties and Responsibilities of Council.--The Council shall 
carry out the following duties and responsibilities:
        ``(1) To meet at least quarterly to--
            ``(A) exchange appropriate data between elements of the 
        intelligence community and elements of the Federal Government 
        that are not elements of the intelligence community;
            ``(B) discuss processes for the routine exchange of such 
        data and implementation of such processes; and
            ``(C) prepare summaries of the business conducted at each 
        meeting.
        ``(2) To assess and determine best practices with respect to 
    the analysis of climate security, including identifying publicly 
    available information and intelligence acquired through clandestine 
    means that enables such analysis.
        ``(3) To assess and identify best practices with respect to 
    prior efforts of the intelligence community to analyze climate 
    security.
        ``(4) To assess and describe best practices for identifying and 
    disseminating climate security indicators and warnings.
        ``(5) To recommend methods of incorporating analysis of climate 
    security and the best practices identified under paragraphs (2) 
    through (4) into existing analytic training programs.
        ``(6) To consult, as appropriate, with other elements of the 
    intelligence community that conduct analysis of climate change or 
    climate security and elements of the Federal Government that are 
    not elements of the intelligence community that conduct analysis of 
    climate change or climate security, for the purpose of sharing 
    information about ongoing efforts and avoiding duplication of 
    existing efforts.
        ``(7) To work with elements of the intelligence community that 
    conduct analysis of climate change or climate security and elements 
    of the Federal Government that are not elements of the intelligence 
    community that conduct analysis of climate change or climate 
    security--
            ``(A) to exchange appropriate data between such elements, 
        establish processes, procedures and practices for the routine 
        exchange of such data, discuss the implementation of such 
        processes; and
            ``(B) to enable and facilitate the sharing of findings and 
        analysis between such elements.
        ``(8) To assess whether the elements of the intelligence 
    community that conduct analysis of climate change or climate 
    security may inform the research direction of academic work and the 
    sponsored work of the United States Government.
        ``(9) At the discretion of the chair of the Council, to convene 
    conferences of analysts and nonintelligence community personnel 
    working on climate change or climate security on subjects that the 
    chair shall direct.
    ``(d) Sunset.--The Council shall terminate on the date that is 4 
years after the date of the enactment of this section.
    ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) Climate security.--The term `climate security' means the 
    effects of climate change on the following:
            ``(A) The national security of the United States, including 
        national security infrastructure.
            ``(B) Subnational, national, and regional political 
        stability.
            ``(C) The security of allies and partners of the United 
        States.
            ``(D) Ongoing or potential political violence, including 
        unrest, rioting, guerrilla warfare, insurgency, terrorism, 
        rebellion, revolution, civil war, and interstate war.
        ``(2) Climate intelligence indications and warnings.--The term 
    `climate intelligence indications and warnings' means developments 
    relating to climate security with the potential to--
            ``(A) imminently and substantially alter the political 
        stability or degree of human security in a country or region; 
        or
            ``(B) imminently and substantially threaten--
                ``(i) the national security of the United States;
                ``(ii) the military, political, or economic interests 
            of allies and partners of the United States; or
                ``(iii) citizens of the United States abroad.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in the first section 
of the National Security Act of 1947 is amended by inserting after the 
item relating to section 119B the following new item:

``Sec. 120. Climate Security Advisory Council.''.

    (c) Initial Appointments.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
appoint the members of the Council under section 120 of the National 
Security Act of 1947, as added by subsection (a).
SEC. 5322. FOREIGN MALIGN INFLUENCE RESPONSE CENTER.
    (a) Establishment.--The National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3001 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 119B the following 
new section:
``SEC. 119C. FOREIGN MALIGN INFLUENCE RESPONSE CENTER.
    ``(a) Establishment.--There is within the Office of the Director of 
National Intelligence a Foreign Malign Influence Response Center (in 
this section referred to as the `Center').
    ``(b) Functions and Composition.--The Center shall--
        ``(1) be comprised of analysts from all elements of the 
    intelligence community, including elements with diplomatic and law 
    enforcement functions;
        ``(2) have access to all intelligence and other reporting 
    possessed or acquired by the United States Government pertaining to 
    foreign malign influence;
        ``(3) serve as the primary organization in the United States 
    Government for analyzing and integrating all intelligence possessed 
    or acquired by the United States Government pertaining to foreign 
    malign influence; and
        ``(4) provide to employees and officers of the Federal 
    Government in policy-making positions and Congress comprehensive 
    assessments, and indications and warnings, of foreign malign 
    influence.
    ``(c) Director.--
        ``(1) Appointment.--There is a Director of the Center, who 
    shall be the head of the Center, and who shall be appointed by the 
    Director of National Intelligence.
        ``(2) Role.--The Director of the Center shall--
            ``(A) report directly to the Director of National 
        Intelligence;
            ``(B) carry out the functions under subsection (b); and
            ``(C) at the request of the President or the Director of 
        National Intelligence, develop and provide recommendations for 
        potential responses by the United States to foreign malign 
        influence.
    ``(d) Annual Reports.--
        ``(1) In general.--In addition to the matters submitted 
    pursuant to subsection (b)(4), at the direction of the Director of 
    National Intelligence, but not less than once each year, the 
    Director of the Center shall submit to the congressional 
    intelligence committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the 
    House of Representatives, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of 
    the Senate a report on foreign malign influence.
        ``(2) Matters included.--Each report under paragraph (1) shall 
    include, with respect to the period covered by the report, a 
    discussion of the following:
            ``(A) The most significant activities of the Center.
            ``(B) Any recommendations the Director determines necessary 
        for legislative or other actions to improve the ability of the 
        Center to carry out its functions, including recommendations 
        regarding the protection of privacy and civil liberties.
    ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) Covered foreign country.--The term `covered foreign 
    country' means the following:
            ``(A) The Russian Federation.
            ``(B) The Islamic Republic of Iran.
            ``(C) The Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
            ``(D) The People's Republic of China.
            ``(E) Any other foreign country that the Director of the 
        Center determines appropriate for purposes of this section.
        ``(2) Foreign malign influence.--The term `foreign malign 
    influence' means any hostile effort undertaken by, at the direction 
    of, or on behalf of or with the substantial support of, the 
    government of a covered foreign country with the objective of 
    influencing, through overt or covert means--
            ``(A) the political, military, economic, or other policies 
        or activities of the United States Government or State or local 
        governments, including any election within the United States; 
        or
            ``(B) the public opinion within the United States.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents at the beginning of 
such Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
119B the following new item:

``Sec. 119C. Foreign Malign Influence Response Center.''.

    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Section 507(a) of such Act (50 U.S.C. 
3106) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(6) An annual report submitted under section 119C(d)(1).''.
SEC. 5323. ENCOURAGEMENT OF COOPERATIVE ACTIONS TO DETECT AND COUNTER 
FOREIGN INFLUENCE OPERATIONS.
    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
        (1) The Russian Federation, through military intelligence 
    units, also known as the ``GRU'', and Kremlin-linked troll 
    organizations often referred to as the ``Internet Research 
    Agency'', deploy information warfare operations against the United 
    States, its allies and partners, with the goal of advancing the 
    strategic interests of the Russian Federation.
        (2) One line of effort deployed as part of these information 
    warfare operations is the weaponization of social media platforms 
    with the goals of intensifying societal tensions, undermining trust 
    in governmental institutions within the United States, its allies 
    and partners in the West, and generally sowing division, fear, and 
    confusion.
        (3) These information warfare operations are a threat to the 
    national security of the United States and that of the allies and 
    partners of the United States. As former Director of National 
    Intelligence Dan Coats stated, ``These actions are persistent, they 
    are pervasive and they are meant to undermine America's 
    democracy.''.
        (4) These information warfare operations continue to evolve and 
    increase in sophistication.
        (5) Other foreign adversaries and hostile non-state actors are 
    increasingly adopting similar tactics of deploying information 
    warfare operations against the West, such as recent state-backed 
    operations from China around the Hong Kong protests identified by 
    social media companies.
        (6) Technological advances, including artificial intelligence, 
    will only make it more difficult in the future to detect fraudulent 
    accounts, deceptive material posted on social media, and malign 
    behavior on social media platforms.
        (7) Because these information warfare operations are deployed 
    within and across private social media platforms, the companies 
    that own these platforms have a responsibility to detect and 
    facilitate the removal or neutralization of foreign adversary 
    networks operating clandestinely on their platforms.
        (8) The social media companies are inherently technologically 
    sophisticated and adept at rapidly analyzing large amounts of data 
    and developing software-based solutions to diverse and ever-
    changing challenges on their platforms, which makes them well-
    equipped to address the threat occurring on their platforms.
        (9) Independent analyses confirmed Kremlin-linked threat 
    networks, based on data provided by several social media companies 
    to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, thereby 
    demonstrating that it is possible to discern both broad patterns of 
    cross-platform information warfare operations and specific 
    fraudulent behavior on social media platforms.
        (10) General Paul Nakasone, Director of the National Security 
    Agency, emphasized the importance of these independent analyses to 
    the planning and conducting of military cyber operations to 
    frustrate Kremlin-linked information warfare operations against the 
    2018 mid-term elections. General Nakasone stated that the reports 
    ``were very, very helpful in terms of being able to understand 
    exactly what our adversary was trying to do to build dissent within 
    our nation.''.
        (11) Institutionalizing ongoing robust, independent, and 
    vigorous analysis of data related to foreign threat networks within 
    and across social media platforms will help counter ongoing 
    information warfare operations against the United States, its 
    allies, and its partners.
        (12) Archiving and disclosing to the public the results of 
    these analyses by the social media companies and trusted third-
    party experts in a transparent manner will serve to demonstrate 
    that the social media companies are detecting and removing foreign 
    malign activities from their platforms while protecting the privacy 
    of the people of the United States and will build public 
    understanding of the scale and scope of these foreign threats to 
    our democracy, since exposure is one of the most effective means to 
    build resilience.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the social media companies should cooperate among 
    themselves and with independent organizations and researchers on a 
    sustained and regular basis to share and analyze data and 
    indicators relevant to foreign information warfare operations 
    within and across their platforms in order to detect and counter 
    foreign information warfare operations that threaten the national 
    security of the United States and its allies and partners;
        (2) information from law enforcement and the intelligence 
    community is also important in assisting efforts by these social 
    media companies to identify foreign information warfare operations;
        (3) these analytic efforts should be organized in such a 
    fashion as to meet the highest standards of ethics, 
    confidentiality, and privacy protection of the people of the United 
    States, while still allowing timely research access to relevant 
    data;
        (4) these analytic efforts should be undertaken as soon as 
    possible to facilitate countering ongoing state or state-backed 
    foreign information warfare operations and to aid in preparations 
    for the United States Presidential and congressional elections in 
    2020 and beyond;
        (5) the structure and operations of social media companies make 
    them well positioned to work with independent organizations and 
    researchers to address foreign adversary threat networks within and 
    across their platforms, and these efforts could be conducted 
    without direct Government involvement, direction, or regulation; 
    and
        (6) if the social media industry fails to take sufficient 
    action to address foreign adversary threat networks operating 
    within or across their platforms, Congress would have to consider 
    additional safeguards for ensuring that this threat is effectively 
    mitigated.
    (c) Authority to Facilitate Establishment of Social Media Data and 
Threat Analysis Center.--
        (1) Authority.--The Director of National Intelligence, in 
    coordination with the Secretary of Defense, may facilitate, by 
    grant or contract or under an existing authority of the Director, 
    the establishment of a Social Media Data and Threat Analysis Center 
    with the functions described in paragraph (2) at an independent, 
    nonprofit organization.
        (2) Functions.--The functions described in this paragraph are 
    the following:
            (A) Acting as a convening and sponsoring authority for 
        cooperative social media data analysis of foreign threat 
        networks involving social media companies and third-party 
        experts, nongovernmental organizations, data journalists, 
        Federally funded research and development centers, academic 
        researchers, traditional media, and international counterparts, 
        as appropriate.
            (B) Facilitating analysis of foreign influence operation, 
        within and across the individual social media platforms as well 
        as hacking and leaking campaigns, and other tactics, and 
        related unlawful activities that fund or subsidize such 
        operations.
            (C) Developing processes to share information from 
        government entities on foreign influence operations with the 
        individual social media companies to inform threat analysis, 
        and working with the Office of the Director of National 
        Intelligence as appropriate.
            (D) Determining and making public criteria for identifying 
        which companies, organizations, or researchers qualify for 
        inclusion in the activities of the Center, and inviting 
        entities that fit the criteria to join.
            (E) Determining jointly with the social media companies 
        what data and metadata related to indicators of foreign 
        adversary threat networks from their platforms and business 
        operations will be made available for access and analysis.
            (F) Developing and making public the criteria and standards 
        that must be met for companies, other organizations, and 
        individual researchers to access and analyze data relating to 
        foreign adversary threat networks within and across social 
        media platforms and publish or otherwise use the results.
            (G) Developing and making public the ethical standards for 
        investigation of foreign threat networks and use of analytic 
        results and for protection of the privacy of the customers and 
        users of the social media platforms and of the proprietary 
        information of the social media companies.
            (H) Developing technical, contractual, and procedural 
        controls to prevent misuse of data, including any necessary 
        auditing procedures, compliance checks, and review mechanisms.
            (I) Developing and making public criteria and conditions 
        under which the Center shall share information with the 
        appropriate Government agencies regarding threats to national 
        security from, or violations of the law involving, foreign 
        activities on social media platforms.
            (J) Hosting a searchable archive aggregating information 
        related to foreign influence and disinformation operations to 
        build a collective understanding of the threats and facilitate 
        future examination consistent with privacy protections.
            (K) Developing data standards to harmonize the sharing of 
        information pursuant to this paragraph.
    (d) Reporting and Notifications.--If the Director of National 
Intelligence chooses to use funds under subsection (c)(1) to facilitate 
the establishment of the Center, the Director of the Center shall--
        (1) not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
    this Act, submit to appropriate congressional committees a report 
    on--
            (A) the estimated funding needs of the Center for fiscal 
        year 2021 and for subsequent years;
            (B) such statutory protections from liability as the 
        Director considers necessary for the Center, participating 
        social media companies, and participating third-party 
        analytical participants;
            (C) such statutory penalties as the Director considers 
        necessary to ensure against misuse of data by researchers; and
            (D) such changes to the Center's mission to fully capture 
        broader unlawful activities that intersect with, complement, or 
        support information warfare tactics; and
        (2) not less frequently than once each year, submit to the 
    Director of National Intelligence, the Secretary of Defense, and 
    the appropriate congressional committees a report--
            (A) that assesses--
                (i) degree of cooperation and commitment from the 
            social media companies to the mission of the Center; and
                (ii) effectiveness of the Center in detecting and 
            facilitating the removal or neutralization of clandestine 
            foreign information warfare operations from social media 
            platforms; and
            (B) includes such recommendations for legislative or 
        administrative action as the Center considers appropriate to 
        carry out the functions of the Center.
    (e) Periodic Reporting to the Public.--The Director of the Center 
shall--
        (1) once each quarter, make available to the public a report on 
    key trends in foreign influence and disinformation operations, 
    including any threats to campaigns and elections, to inform the 
    public of the United States; and
        (2) as the Director considers necessary, provide more timely 
    assessments relating to ongoing disinformation campaigns.
    (f) Funding.--Of the amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available to the National Intelligence Program (as defined in section 3 
of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003)) in fiscal year 
2020 and 2021, the Director of National Intelligence may use up to 
$30,000,000 to carry out this section.
    (g) Definition of Appropriate Congressional Committees.--In this 
section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
        (2) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
    of the Senate;
        (3) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;
        (4) the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate;
        (5) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate;
        (6) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
    Representatives;
        (7) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
    Representatives;
        (8) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
    Representatives;
        (9) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of 
    Representatives; and
        (10) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
    House of Representatives.
SEC. 5324. TRANSFER OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE UNIVERSITY TO THE OFFICE 
OF THE DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE.
    (a) Transfer.--Upon the submission of the joint certifications 
under subsection (b)(1), the Secretary of Defense and the Director of 
National Intelligence shall take such actions that the Director 
determines necessary to transfer the National Intelligence University 
from the Defense Intelligence Agency to the Director of National 
Intelligence.
    (b) Joint Certifications.--
        (1) Requirement.--Except as provided by paragraph (2), as soon 
    as practicable after the date of the enactment of this Act, but not 
    later than 18 months after the date of such enactment, the 
    Secretary of Defense and the Director of National Intelligence 
    shall jointly submit to the appropriate congressional committees 
    written certifications of each of the following:
            (A) The Middle States Commission on Higher Education has 
        provided regional academic accreditation for the National 
        Intelligence University before the date of the certification, 
        or will provide such academic accreditation as of the date on 
        which the University is transferred under subsection (a).
            (B) Members of the Armed Forces attending the University 
        will be eligible to receive credit for Phase I joint 
        professional military education.
            (C) The Secretary of Education has informed the Director of 
        National Intelligence that the Secretary has recommended 
        approval of the degrees to be conferred pursuant to subsection 
        (e)(2) or will provide such recommended approval as of the date 
        on which the University is transferred under subsection (a).
            (D) The Director of National Intelligence, in collaboration 
        with the Secretary of Defense, has established an appropriate 
        governance model for the University.
            (E) The Secretary of Defense shall use the University to 
        provide personnel of the Department of Defense with advanced 
        intelligence education.
        (2) Failure to certify.--
            (A) Actions required.--If the Secretary of Defense and the 
        Director of National Intelligence fail to submit the 
        certifications under paragraph (1) by the date specified in 
        such paragraph, the Secretary and the Director shall--
                (i) jointly submit to the appropriate congressional 
            committees a report on such failure by not later than 21 
            months after the date of the enactment of this Act; and
                (ii) jointly submit such certifications as soon as 
            practicable.
            (B) Contents of report.--The report under subparagraph 
        (A)(i) shall contain the following:
                (i) A description of the progress made toward 
            fulfilling the conditions described in such paragraph as of 
            the date of the report.
                (ii) A description of any obstacles preventing the 
            fulfillment of such conditions.
                (iii) The estimated dates of completion for the 
            fulfillment of such conditions and the submission of the 
            certifications.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, the 
Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, and the President of the 
National Intelligence University shall jointly provide to the 
appropriate congressional committees a briefing on the plan to carry 
out the transfer under subsection (a), including with respect to--
        (1) ensuring the provision of services to all elements of the 
    intelligence community;
        (2) employing a military cadre at the University; and
        (3) addressing the current accreditation status of the National 
    Intelligence University with the Middle States Commission on Higher 
    Education.
    (d) Cost Estimates of Transfer.--
        (1) Requirement.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Director of 
    National Intelligence shall jointly submit to the appropriate 
    congressional committees an estimate of--
            (A) the annual costs of operating the National Intelligence 
        University; and
            (B) the costs to the Federal Government of transferring the 
        National Intelligence University to the Director of National 
        Intelligence.
        (2) Inclusion of indirect costs.--The estimate submitted under 
    paragraph (1) shall include all indirect costs, including with 
    respect to human resources, security, facilities, and information 
    technology.
    (e) Degree-granting Authority.--
        (1) Regulations.--Beginning on the date on which the National 
    Intelligence University is transferred under subsection (a), under 
    regulations prescribed by the Director of National Intelligence, 
    the President of the National Intelligence University may, upon the 
    recommendation of the faculty of the University, confer appropriate 
    degrees upon graduates who meet the degree requirements.
        (2) Limitation.--A degree may not be conferred under this 
    section unless--
            (A) the Secretary of Education has recommended approval of 
        the degree in accordance with the Federal Policy Governing 
        Granting of Academic Degrees by Federal Agencies; and
            (B) the University is accredited by the appropriate 
        civilian academic accrediting agency or organization to award 
        the degree, as determined by the Secretary of Education.
    (f) Congressional Notification Requirements.--
        (1) Actions on nonaccreditation.--Beginning on the date on 
    which the National Intelligence University is transferred under 
    subsection (a), the Director of National Intelligence shall 
    promptly--
            (A) notify the congressional intelligence committees of any 
        action by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education, or 
        other appropriate academic accrediting agency or organization, 
        to not accredit the University to award any new or existing 
        degree; and
            (B) submit to such committees a report containing an 
        explanation of any such action.
        (2) Modification or redesignation of degree-granting 
    authority.--Beginning on the date on which the National 
    Intelligence University is transferred under subsection (a), upon 
    any modification or redesignation of existing degree-granting 
    authority, the Director shall submit to the congressional 
    intelligence committees a report containing the rationale for the 
    proposed modification or redesignation and any subsequent 
    recommendation of the Secretary of Education with respect to the 
    proposed modification or redesignation.
    (g) Conforming Repeal.--
        (1) In general.--Section 2161 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is repealed, and the table of sections at the beginning of chapter 
    108 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to such 
    section 2161.
        (2) Effective date.--The amendments made by paragraph (1) shall 
    take effect on the date on which the Secretary of Defense and the 
    Director of National Intelligence jointly submit the joint 
    certifications under subsection (b)(1). The Secretary and the 
    Director shall jointly notify the Law Revision Counsel of the House 
    of Representatives of the submission of the certifications so that 
    the Law Revision Counsel may execute the amendments made by 
    paragraph (1).
    (h) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the congressional intelligence committees; and
            (B) the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
        House of Representatives.
        (2) Phase i joint professional military education.--The term 
    ``Phase I joint professional military education'' has the meaning 
    given that term pursuant to section 2154 of title 10, United States 
    Code.

      Subtitle C--Inspector General of the Intelligence Community

SEC. 5331. DEFINITIONS.
    In this subtitle:
        (1) Whistleblower.--The term ``whistleblower'' means a person 
    who makes a whistleblower disclosure.
        (2) Whistleblower disclosure.--The term ``whistleblower 
    disclosure'' means a disclosure that is protected under section 
    1104 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3234) or 
    section 3001(j)(1) of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism 
    Prevention Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 3341(j)).
SEC. 5332. INSPECTOR GENERAL EXTERNAL REVIEW PANEL.
    (a) Authority to Convene External Review Panels.--
        (1) In general.--Title XI of the National Security Act of 1947 
    (50 U.S.C. 3231 et seq.), as amended by section 6718, is amended by 
    adding at the end the following new section:
``SEC. 1106. INSPECTOR GENERAL EXTERNAL REVIEW PANEL.
    ``(a) Request for Review.--An individual with a claim described in 
subsection (b) may submit to the Inspector General of the Intelligence 
Community a request for a review of such claim by an external review 
panel convened under subsection (c).
    ``(b) Claims and Individuals Described.--A claim described in this 
subsection is any--
        ``(1) claim by an individual--
            ``(A) that the individual has been subjected to a personnel 
        action that is prohibited under section 1104; and
            ``(B) who has exhausted the applicable review process for 
        the claim pursuant to enforcement of such section; or
        ``(2) claim by an individual--
            ``(A) that he or she has been subjected to a reprisal 
        prohibited by paragraph (1) of section 3001(j) of the 
        Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (50 
        U.S.C. 3341(j)); and
            ``(B) who received a decision on an appeal regarding that 
        claim under paragraph (4) of such section.
    ``(c) External Review Panel Convened.--
        ``(1) Discretion to convene.--Upon receipt of a request under 
    subsection (a) regarding a claim, the Inspector General of the 
    Intelligence Community may, at the discretion of the Inspector 
    General, convene an external review panel under this subsection to 
    review the claim.
        ``(2) Membership.--
            ``(A) Composition.--An external review panel convened under 
        this subsection shall be composed of three members as follows:
                ``(i) The Inspector General of the Intelligence 
            Community.
                ``(ii) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), two 
            members selected by the Inspector General as the Inspector 
            General considers appropriate on a case-by-case basis from 
            among inspectors general of the following:

                    ``(I) The Department of Defense.
                    ``(II) The Department of Energy.
                    ``(III) The Department of Homeland Security.
                    ``(IV) The Department of Justice.
                    ``(V) The Department of State.
                    ``(VI) The Department of the Treasury.
                    ``(VII) The Central Intelligence Agency.
                    ``(VIII) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
                    ``(IX) The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.
                    ``(X) The National Reconnaissance Office.
                    ``(XI) The National Security Agency.

            ``(B) Limitation.--An inspector general of an agency may 
        not be selected to sit on the panel under subparagraph (A)(ii) 
        to review any matter relating to a decision made by such 
        agency.
            ``(C) Chairperson.--
                ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in clause (ii), 
            the chairperson of any panel convened under this subsection 
            shall be the Inspector General of the Intelligence 
            Community.
                ``(ii) Conflicts of interest.--If the Inspector General 
            of the Intelligence Community finds cause to recuse himself 
            or herself from a panel convened under this subsection, the 
            Inspector General of the Intelligence Community shall--

                    ``(I) select a chairperson from inspectors general 
                of the elements listed under subparagraph (A)(ii) whom 
                the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community 
                considers appropriate; and
                    ``(II) notify the congressional intelligence 
                committees of such selection.

        ``(3) Period of review.--Each external review panel convened 
    under this subsection to review a claim shall complete review of 
    the claim no later than 270 days after the date on which the 
    Inspector General convenes the external review panel.
    ``(d) Remedies.--
        ``(1) Panel recommendations.--If an external review panel 
    convened under subsection (c) determines, pursuant to a review of a 
    claim submitted by an individual under subsection (a), that the 
    individual was the subject of a personnel action prohibited under 
    section 1104 or was subjected to a reprisal prohibited by section 
    3001(j)(1) of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act 
    of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 3341(j)(1)), the panel may recommend that the 
    agency head take corrective action--
            ``(A) in the case of an employee or former employee--
                ``(i) to return the employee or former employee, as 
            nearly as practicable and reasonable, to the position such 
            employee or former employee would have held had the 
            reprisal not occurred; or
                ``(ii) reconsider the employee's or former employee's 
            eligibility for access to classified information consistent 
            with national security; or
            ``(B) in any other case, such other action as the external 
        review panel considers appropriate.
        ``(2) Agency action.--
            ``(A) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date on 
        which the head of an agency receives a recommendation from an 
        external review panel under paragraph (1), the head shall--
                ``(i) give full consideration to such recommendation; 
            and
                ``(ii) inform the panel and the Director of National 
            Intelligence of what action the head has taken with respect 
            to the recommendation.
            ``(B) Failure to inform.--The Director shall notify the 
        President of any failures to comply with subparagraph (A)(ii).
    ``(e) Annual Reports.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not less frequently than once each year, the 
    Inspector General of the Intelligence Community shall submit to the 
    congressional intelligence committees and the Director of National 
    Intelligence a report on the activities under this section during 
    the previous year.
        ``(2) Contents.--Subject to such limitations as the Inspector 
    General of the Intelligence Community considers necessary to 
    protect the privacy of an individual who has made a claim described 
    in subsection (b), each report submitted under paragraph (1) shall 
    include, for the period covered by the report, the following:
            ``(A) The determinations and recommendations made by the 
        external review panels convened under this section.
            ``(B) The responses of the heads of agencies that received 
        recommendations from the external review panels.''.
        (2) Table of contents amendment.--The table of contents in the 
    first section of the National Security Act of 1947, as amended by 
    section 6718, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
    item:

``Sec. 1106. Inspector General external review panel.''.

    (b) Recommendation on Addressing Whistleblower Appeals Relating to 
Reprisal Complaints Against Inspectors General.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the Intelligence 
    Community, in consultation with the Intelligence Community 
    Inspectors General Forum, shall submit to the congressional 
    intelligence committees a recommendation on how to ensure that--
            (A) a whistleblower in the intelligence community who has a 
        complaint against an inspector general in the intelligence 
        community and who alleges a reprisal, has available the 
        adjudication and review provided under section 1104 of the 
        National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3234); and
            (B) any such whistleblower who has exhausted the applicable 
        review process may request an external review panel and receive 
        one, at the discretion of the Inspector General of the 
        Intelligence Community.
        (2) Contents.--The recommendation submitted pursuant to 
    paragraph (1) shall include the following:
            (A) A discussion of whether and to what degree section 1106 
        of the National Security Act of 1947, as added by subsection 
        (a)(1), provides appropriate authorities and mechanisms to 
        provide an external review panel as described in paragraph (1) 
        of this subsection and for the purposes described in such 
        paragraph.
            (B) Such recommendations for legislative or administrative 
        action as the Inspector General may have with respect to 
        providing an external review panel as described in paragraph 
        (1) and for the purposes described in such paragraph.
SEC. 5333. HARMONIZATION OF WHISTLEBLOWER PROCESSES AND PROCEDURES.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the Intelligence 
Community, in coordination with the Intelligence Community Inspectors 
General Forum, shall develop recommendations, applicable to all 
inspectors general of elements of the intelligence community, regarding 
the harmonization, where appropriate, of instructions, policies, and 
directives relating to processes, procedures, and timelines for claims 
and appeals relating to allegations of personnel actions prohibited 
under section 1104 of the National Security Act of 1947 or reprisals 
prohibited by section 3001(j)(1) of the Intelligence Reform and 
Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 3341(j)(1)).
    (b) Transparency and Protection.--In developing recommendations 
under subsection (a), the Inspector General of the Intelligence 
Community shall make efforts to maximize transparency and protect 
whistleblowers.
SEC. 5334. OVERSIGHT BY INSPECTOR GENERAL OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY 
OVER INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY WHISTLEBLOWER MATTERS.
    (a) System for Notification of Information Relating to Complaints 
by Whistleblowers Within the Intelligence Community.--Subject to 
subsection (b), not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community, in 
consultation with the Intelligence Community Inspectors General Forum, 
shall establish a system whereby the Inspector General of the 
Intelligence Community is notified in near real time of the following:
        (1) Submission of complaints by whistleblowers to inspectors 
    general of elements of the intelligence community relating to the 
    programs and activities under the jurisdiction of the Director of 
    National Intelligence, and information related to such complaints.
        (2) Actions taken by an inspector general of an element of the 
    Intelligence Community relating to such complaints.
    (b) Policies for Implementation.--
        (1) In general.--The system established under subsection (a) 
    may not be implemented until the Inspector General of the 
    Intelligence Community, in consultation with the Intelligence 
    Community Inspectors General Forum, has developed and released to 
    each of the inspectors general of the elements of the intelligence 
    community written policies regarding the implementation of such 
    subsection.
        (2) Requirements.--The policies required by paragraph (1) 
    shall--
            (A) protect the privacy of whistleblowers, including by 
        preventing dissemination without the consent of the 
        whistleblower, of any information submitted previously by a 
        whistleblower to an inspector general of an element of the 
        intelligence community; and
            (B) ensure compliance with the requirements of subsection 
        (a), while--
                (i) ensuring that the Inspector General of the 
            Intelligence Community can oversee whistleblower policies 
            and practices and identify matters that, in the judgment of 
            the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community, may be 
            the subject of an investigation, inspection, audit, or 
            review by the Inspector General of the Intelligence 
            Community; and
                (ii) avoiding the imposition of inappropriate resource 
            burdens on inspectors general of elements of the 
            intelligence community.
SEC. 5335. REPORT ON CLEARED WHISTLEBLOWER ATTORNEYS.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall, in 
coordination with the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community 
and the Intelligence Community Inspectors General Forum, submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees a report on access to cleared 
attorneys by whistleblowers in the intelligence community.
    (b) Contents.--The report submitted pursuant to subsection (a) 
shall include the following with respect to the 3-year period preceding 
the date of the report:
        (1) The number of whistleblowers in the intelligence community 
    who requested, through formal submission or verbal request, to 
    retain a cleared attorney and at what stage they requested an 
    attorney.
        (2) The number of such limited security agreements approved, 
    rejected, or pending.
        (3) The scope and clearance levels of such limited security 
    agreements.
        (4) The number of such whistleblowers represented by cleared 
    counsel.
        (5) Recommendations for legislative or administrative action to 
    ensure that whistleblowers in the intelligence community have 
    access to cleared attorneys, including improvements to the limited 
    security agreement process and such other options as the Inspector 
    General of the Intelligence Community considers appropriate.
    (c) Survey.--The Inspector General of the Intelligence Community 
shall ensure that the report submitted under subsection (a) is based 
on--
        (1) data from a survey of whistleblowers whose identity may be 
    shared, as appropriate, with the Inspector General of the 
    Intelligence Community by means of the system established pursuant 
    to section 5334;
        (2) information obtained from the inspectors general of the 
    intelligence community; or
        (3) information from such other sources as may be identified by 
    the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community.

                Subtitle D--Central Intelligence Agency

SEC. 5341. CLARIFICATION OF CERTAIN AUTHORITY OF THE CENTRAL 
INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.
    Section 8(a)(1) of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 
U.S.C. 3510(a)(1)) is amended by inserting before ``rental of'' the 
following: ``payment of death benefits in cases in which the 
circumstances of the death of an employee of the Agency, a detailee of 
the Agency or other employee of another department or agency of the 
Federal Government assigned to the Agency, or an individual affiliated 
with the Agency (as determined by the Director), is not covered by 
section 11, other similar provisions of Federal law, or any regulation 
issued by the Director providing death benefits, but that the Director 
determines such payment appropriate;''.

                     TITLE LIV--SECURITY CLEARANCES

SEC. 5401. IMPROVING VISIBILITY INTO THE SECURITY CLEARANCE PROCESS.
    (a) Definition of Security Executive Agent.--In this section, the 
term ``Security Executive Agent'' means the officer serving as the 
Security Executive Agent pursuant to section 803 of the National 
Security Act of 1947, as added by section 6605.
    (b) Policy Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Security Executive Agent shall issue a 
policy that requires the head of each Federal agency to create, not 
later than December 31, 2023, an electronic portal that can be used by 
human resources personnel and applicants for security clearances to 
view information about the status of an application for a security 
clearance and the average time required for each phase of the security 
clearance process.
SEC. 5402. MAKING CERTAIN POLICIES AND EXECUTION PLANS RELATING TO 
PERSONNEL CLEARANCES AVAILABLE TO INDUSTRY PARTNERS.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Security executive agent.--The term ``Security Executive 
    Agent'' means the officer serving as the Security Executive Agent 
    pursuant to section 803 of the National Security Act of 1947, as 
    added by section 6605.
        (2) Appropriate industry partner.--The term ``appropriate 
    industry partner'' means a contractor, licensee, or grantee (as 
    defined in section 101(a) of Executive Order 12829 (50 U.S.C. 3161 
    note; relating to National Industrial Security Program), as in 
    effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this Act) 
    that is participating in the National Industrial Security Program 
    established by such Executive Order.
    (b) Sharing of Policies and Plans Required.--Each head of a Federal 
agency shall share policies and plans relating to security clearances 
with appropriate industry partners directly affected by such policies 
and plans in a manner consistent with the protection of national 
security as well as the goals and objectives of the National Industrial 
Security Program administered pursuant to Executive Order 12829 (50 
U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to the National Industrial Security 
Program).
    (c) Development of Policies and Procedures Required.--Not later 
than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Security 
Executive Agent and the Director of the National Industrial Security 
Program shall jointly develop policies and procedures by which 
appropriate industry partners with proper security clearances and a 
need to know can have appropriate access to the policies and plans 
shared pursuant to subsection (b) that directly affect those industry 
partners.

            TITLE LV--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN COUNTRIES
                 Subtitle A--Matters Relating to Russia

SEC. 5501. ANNUAL REPORTS ON INFLUENCE OPERATIONS AND CAMPAIGNS IN THE 
UNITED STATES BY THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.
    (a) Reports.--Title XI of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3231 et seq.), as amended by section 5511, is further amended by 
adding at the end the following new section:
``SEC. 1108. ANNUAL REPORTS ON INFLUENCE OPERATIONS AND CAMPAIGNS IN 
THE UNITED STATES BY THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.
    ``(a) Requirement.--On an annual basis, the Director of the 
National Counterintelligence and Security Center shall submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees a report on the influence 
operations and campaigns in the United States conducted by the Russian 
Federation.
    ``(b) Contents.--Each report under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
        ``(1) A description and listing of the Russian organizations 
    and persons involved in influence operations and campaigns 
    operating in the United States as of the date of the report.
        ``(2) An assessment of organizations that are associated with 
    or receive funding from organizations and persons identified in 
    paragraph (1), particularly such entities operating in the United 
    States.
        ``(3) A description of the efforts by the organizations and 
    persons identified in paragraph (1) to target, coerce, and 
    influence populations within the United States.
        ``(4) An assessment of the activities of the organizations and 
    persons identified in paragraph (1) designed to influence the 
    opinions of elected leaders of the United States or candidates for 
    election in the United States.
        ``(5) With respect to reports submitted after the first report, 
    an assessment of the change in goals, tactics, techniques, and 
    procedures of the influence operations and campaigns conducted by 
    the organizations and persons identified in paragraph (1).
    ``(c) Coordination.--In carrying out subsection (a), the Director 
shall coordinate with the Director of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, the 
Director of the National Security Agency, and any other relevant head 
of an element of the intelligence community.
    ``(d) Form.--Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in the first section 
of the National Security Act of 1947, as amended by section 5511, is 
further amended by inserting after the item relating to section 1107 
the following new item:

``Sec. 1108. Annual reports on influence operations and campaigns in the 
          United States by the Russian Federation.''.

    (c) Initial Report.--The Director of the National 
Counterintelligence and Security Center shall submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees the first report under section 
1108 of the National Security Act of 1947, as added by subsection (a), 
by not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 5502. ASSESSMENT OF LEGITIMATE AND ILLEGITIMATE FINANCIAL AND 
OTHER ASSETS OF VLADIMIR PUTIN.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the United 
States should do more to expose the corruption of Vladimir Putin, whose 
ill-gotten wealth is perhaps the most powerful global symbol of his 
dishonesty and his persistent efforts to undermine the rule of law and 
democracy in the Russian Federation.
    (b) Assessment.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, consistent with the protection of intelligence 
sources and methods, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit 
to the appropriate congressional committees an assessment, based on all 
sources of intelligence, on the net worth and financial and other 
assets, legitimate as well as illegitimate, of Vladimir Putin and his 
family members, including--
        (1) the estimated net worth of Vladimir Putin and his family 
    members;
        (2) a description of their legitimately and illegitimately 
    obtained assets, including all real, personal, and intellectual 
    property, bank or investment or similar accounts, and any other 
    financial or business interests or holdings, including those 
    outside of Russia;
        (3) the details of the legitimately and illegitimately obtained 
    assets, including real, personal, and intellectual property, bank 
    or investment or similar accounts, and any other financial or 
    business interests or holdings, including those outside of Russia, 
    that are owned or controlled by, accessible to, or otherwise 
    maintained for the benefit of Vladimir Putin, including their 
    nature, location, manner of acquisition, value, and publicly named 
    owner (if other than Vladimir Putin);
        (4) the methods used by Vladimir Putin or others acting at his 
    direction, with his knowledge, or for his benefit, to conceal 
    Putin's interest in his accounts, holdings, or other assets, 
    including the establishment of ``front'' or shell companies and the 
    use of intermediaries; and
        (5) an identification of the most significant senior Russian 
    political figures, oligarchs, and any other persons who have 
    engaged in activity intended to conceal the true financial 
    condition of Vladimir Putin.
    (c) Form.--The assessment required under subsection (b) shall be 
submitted either--
        (1) in unclassified form to the extent consistent with the 
    protection of intelligence sources and methods, and may include a 
    classified annex; or
        (2) simultaneously as both an unclassified version and a 
    classified version.
    (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on 
    Foreign Relations, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
    Affairs, and the Committee on Finance of the Senate; and
        (2) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, Committee 
    on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Financial Services, and the 
    Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 5503. ASSESSMENTS OF INTENTIONS OF POLITICAL LEADERSHIP OF THE 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, consistent with the protection of intelligence 
sources and methods, the Director of National Intelligence, and the 
head of any element of the intelligence community that the Director 
determines appropriate, shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees each of the assessments described in subsection (b).
    (b) Assessments Described.--The assessments described in this 
subsection are assessments based on intelligence obtained from all 
sources that assess the current intentions of the political leadership 
of the Russian Federation with respect to the following:
        (1) Potential military action against members of the North 
    Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).
        (2) Potential responses to an enlarged United States or NATO 
    military presence in eastern Europe or to increased United States 
    military support for allies and partners in the region, such as the 
    provision of additional lethal military equipment to Ukraine or 
    Georgia.
        (3) Potential actions taken for the purpose of exploiting 
    perceived divisions among the governments of Russia's Western 
    adversaries.
    (c) Form.--Each assessment required under subsection (a) may be 
submitted in classified form but shall also include an unclassified 
executive summary, consistent with the protection of intelligence 
sources and methods.
    (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees.--In this section, the 
term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the 
    Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Armed Services 
    of the House of Representatives; and
        (2) the Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on 
    Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Armed Services of the 
    Senate.

                 Subtitle B--Matters Relating to China

SEC. 5511. ANNUAL REPORTS ON INFLUENCE OPERATIONS AND CAMPAIGNS IN THE 
UNITED STATES BY THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA.
    (a) Reports.--Title XI of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3231 et seq.), as amended by section 5332, is further amended by 
adding at the end the following new section:
``SEC. 1107. ANNUAL REPORTS ON INFLUENCE OPERATIONS AND CAMPAIGNS IN 
THE UNITED STATES BY THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA.
    ``(a) Requirement.--On an annual basis, consistent with the 
protection of intelligence sources and methods, the Director of the 
National Counterintelligence and Security Center shall submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs 
of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Foreign Relations 
of the Senate a report on the influence operations and campaigns in the 
United States conducted by the Communist Party of China.
    ``(b) Contents.--Each report under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
        ``(1) A description of the organization of the United Front 
    Work Department of the People's Republic of China, or the 
    successors of the United Front Work Department, and the links 
    between the United Front Work Department and the Central Committee 
    of the Communist Party of China.
        ``(2) An assessment of the degree to which organizations that 
    are associated with or receive funding from the United Front Work 
    Department, particularly such entities operating in the United 
    States, are formally tasked by the Chinese Communist Party or the 
    Government of China.
        ``(3) A description of the efforts by the United Front Work 
    Department and subsidiary organizations of the United Front Work 
    Department to target, coerce, and influence foreign populations, 
    particularly those of ethnic Chinese descent.
        ``(4) An assessment of attempts by the Chinese Embassy, 
    consulates, and organizations affiliated with the Chinese Communist 
    Party (including, at a minimum, the United Front Work Department) 
    to influence the United States-based Chinese Student Scholar 
    Associations.
        ``(5) A description of the evolution of the role of the United 
    Front Work Department under the leadership of the President of 
    China.
        ``(6) An assessment of the activities of the United Front Work 
    Department designed to influence the opinions of elected leaders of 
    the United States, or candidates for elections in the United 
    States, with respect to issues of importance to the Chinese 
    Communist Party.
        ``(7) A listing of all known organizations affiliated with the 
    United Front Work Department that are operating in the United 
    States as of the date of the report.
        ``(8) With respect to reports submitted after the first report, 
    an assessment of the change in goals, tactics, techniques, and 
    procedures of the influence operations and campaigns conducted by 
    the Chinese Communist Party.
    ``(c) Coordination.--In carrying out subsection (a), the Director 
shall coordinate with the Director of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, the 
Director of the National Security Agency, and any other relevant head 
of an element of the intelligence community.
    ``(d) Form.--Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in the first section 
of the National Security Act of 1947, as amended by section 5332, is 
further amended by inserting after the item relating to section 1106 
the following new item:

``Sec. 1107. Annual reports on influence operations and campaigns in the 
          United States by the Communist Party of China.''.

    (c) Initial Report.--The Director of the National 
Counterintelligence and Security Center shall submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs 
of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Foreign Relations 
of the Senate the first report under section 1107 of the National 
Security Act of 1947, as added by subsection (a), by not later than 180 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 5512. REPORT ON REPRESSION OF ETHNIC MUSLIM MINORITIES IN THE 
XINJIANG REGION OF THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 150 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, consistent with the protection of intelligence 
sources and methods, the Director of National Intelligence shall, in 
consultation with the Secretary of State, submit to the congressional 
intelligence committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House 
of Representatives, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
Senate a report on activity by the People's Republic of China to 
repress ethnic Muslim minorities in the Xinjiang region of China.
    (b) Contents.--The report under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
        (1) An assessment of the number of individuals detained in 
    ``political reeducation camps'', and the conditions in such camps 
    for detainees, in the Xinjiang region of China, including whether 
    detainees endure torture, forced renunciation of faith, or other 
    mistreatment.
        (2) A description, as possible, of the geographic location of 
    such camps.
        (3) A description, as possible, of the methods used by China to 
    ``reeducate'' detainees and the elements of China responsible for 
    such ``reeducation''.
        (4) A description of any forced labor in such camps, and any 
    labor performed in regional factories for low wages under the 
    threat of being sent back to ``political reeducation camps''.
        (5) An assessment of the level of access China grants to 
    foreign persons observing the situation in Xinjiang and a 
    description of measures used to impede efforts to monitor the 
    conditions in Xinjiang.
        (6) An assessment of the surveillance, detection, and control 
    methods used by China to target ethnic minorities, including new 
    ``high-tech'' policing models and a description of any civil 
    liberties or privacy protections provided under such models.
        (7) An assessment and identification of the technological and 
    financial support provided by United States-based companies, 
    including technological support for the development of facial 
    recognition capabilities or technologies for digital surveillance, 
    social control, or censorship, and financial support, including 
    from financial institutions, investment vehicles, and pension 
    funds, to China-based companies or Chinese government entities 
    providing material support to the digital surveillance or 
    repression of Uyghur and other ethnic minorities in Xinjiang by the 
    Xinjiang authorities.
    (c) Coordination.--The Director of National Intelligence shall 
carry out subsection (a) in coordination with the Director of the 
Central Intelligence Agency, the Director of the National Security 
Agency, the Director of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, 
and the head of any other agency of the Federal Government that the 
Director of National Intelligence determines appropriate.
    (d) Form.--The report submitted under subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 5513. REPORT ON EFFORTS BY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA TO INFLUENCE 
ELECTION IN TAIWAN.
    (a) Report.--Consistent with section 3(c) of the Taiwan Relations 
Act (Public Law 96-8; 22 U.S.C. 3302(c)), and consistent with the 
protection of intelligence sources and methods, not later than 45 days 
after the date of the election for the President and Vice President of 
Taiwan in 2020, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to 
the congressional intelligence committees, the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Foreign 
Relations of the Senate a report on any--
        (1) influence operations conducted by China to interfere in or 
    undermine such election; and
        (2) efforts by the United States to disrupt such operations.
    (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
        (1) A description of any significant efforts by the 
    intelligence community to coordinate technical and material support 
    for Taiwan to identify, disrupt, and combat influence operations 
    specified in subsection (a)(1).
        (2) A description of any efforts by the United States 
    Government to build the capacity of Taiwan to disrupt external 
    efforts that degrade a free and fair election process.
        (3) An assessment of whether and to what extent China conducted 
    influence operations specified in subsection (a)(1), and, if such 
    operations occurred--
            (A) a comprehensive list of specific governmental and 
        nongovernmental entities of China that were involved in 
        supporting such operations and a description of the role of 
        each such entity; and
            (B) an identification of any tactics, techniques, and 
        procedures used in such operations.
    (c) Form.--The report under subsection (a) shall be submitted in 
unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

            Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Other Countries

SEC. 5521. SENSE OF CONGRESS AND REPORT ON IRANIAN EFFORTS IN SYRIA AND 
LEBANON.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that, 
regardless of the ultimate number of United States military personnel 
deployed to Syria, it is a vital interest of the United States to 
prevent the Islamic Republic of Iran, Hizballah, and other Iranian-
backed forces from establishing a strong and enduring presence in Syria 
that can be used to project power in the region and threaten the United 
States and its allies, including Israel.
    (b) Report.--
        (1) Report required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, 
    in coordination with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of 
    Defense, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
    report that assesses--
            (A) efforts by Iran to establish long-term influence in 
        Syria through military, political, economic, social, and 
        cultural means;
            (B) the degree to which Iranian support of proxy forces in 
        Syria and Lebanon contributes to Iranian strategy with respect 
        to the region; and
            (C) the threat posed by the efforts described in 
        subparagraph (A) to United States interests and allies.
        (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include 
    each of the following:
            (A) An assessment of--
                (i) how Iran and Iranian-backed forces, including the 
            Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and Hizballah, have 
            provided or are currently providing manpower, training, 
            weapons, equipment, and funding to the Syrian government 
            led by President Bashar al-Assad;
                (ii) the support provided by Iran and Hizballah to Shia 
            militias operating in Syria composed of domestic fighters 
            from Syria and foreign fighters from countries such as 
            Afghanistan, Iraq, Lebanon, and Pakistan;
                (iii) operational lessons learned by Hizballah based on 
            the recent experiences of Hizballah in Syria;
                (iv) the threat posed by Iran and Iranian-backed forces 
            to--

                    (I) the al-Tanf garrison; and
                    (II) areas of northeast Syria that are currently 
                controlled by local partner forces of the United 
                States;

                (v) the degree to which efforts of the United States to 
            sustain and strengthen Kurdish forces in Syria may 
            undermine the influence of Iran and Iranian-backed forces 
            in Syria;
                (vi) how Iran and Iranian-backed forces seek to enhance 
            the long-term influence of such entities in Syria through 
            non-military means such as purchasing strategic real estate 
            in Syria, constructing Shia religious centers and schools, 
            securing loyalty from Sunni tribes in exchange for material 
            assistance, and inducing the Assad government to open 
            Farsi-language departments at Syrian universities;
                (vii) whether the prominent role of Iran in Syria, 
            including the influence of Iran over government 
            institutions, may increase the likelihood of the 
            reconstitution of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria in 
            Syria; and
                (viii) the provision of goods, services, or technology 
            transferred by Iran or its affiliates to Hizballah for the 
            purpose of indigenously manufacturing or otherwise 
            producing missiles.
            (B) An analysis of--
                (i) how Iran is working with the Russian Federation, 
            Turkey, and other countries to increase the influence of 
            Iran in Syria;
                (ii) the goals of Iran in Syria, including, but not 
            limited to, protecting the Assad government, increasing the 
            regional influence of Iran, threatening Israel from a more 
            proximate location, building weapon-production facilities 
            and other military infrastructure, and securing a land 
            bridge to connect Iran through Iraq and Syria to the 
            stronghold of Hizballah in southern Lebanon; and
                (iii) the foreign and domestic supply chains that 
            significantly facilitate, support, or otherwise aid 
            acquisition or development by Hizballah of missile 
            production facilities, including the geographic 
            distribution of such foreign and domestic supply chains.
            (C) A description of--
                (i) how the efforts of Iran to transfer advanced 
            weapons to Hizballah and to establish a military presence 
            in Syria has led to direct and repeated confrontations with 
            Israel;
                (ii) the intelligence and military support that the 
            United States provides to Israel to help Israel identify 
            and appropriately address specific threats to Israel from 
            Iran and Iranian-backed forces in Syria;
                (iii) the threat posed to Israel and other allies of 
            the United States in the Middle East resulting from the 
            transfer of arms or related material, or other support, by 
            Iran to Hizballah and other proxies;
                (iv) Iranian and Iranian-controlled personnel operating 
            within Syria, including Hizballah, Shiite militias, and 
            Revolutionary Guard Corps forces of Iran, and the number 
            and geographic distribution of such personnel;
                (v) any rocket-producing facilities in Lebanon for 
            nonstate actors, including whether such facilities were 
            assessed to be built at the direction of Hizballah 
            leadership, Iranian leadership, or in consultation between 
            Iranian leadership and Hizballah leadership; and
                (vi) Iranian expenditures in the previous calendar year 
            on military and terrorist activities outside the country, 
            including the amount of such expenditures with respect to 
            each of Hizballah, Houthi rebels in Yemen, Hamas, proxy 
            forces in Iraq and Syria, ballistic missile research and 
            testing, and any other entity, country, or activity that 
            the Director determines as destabilizing to the Middle East 
            region.
        (3) Form of report.--The report under paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
        (4) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            (A) Appropriate congressional committees.--the term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                (i) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
            Foreign Relations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence 
            of the Senate; and
                (ii) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
            Foreign Affairs, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
            Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
            (B) Arms or related material.--The term ``arms or related 
        material'' means--
                (i) nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological 
            weapons or materials or components of such weapons;
                (ii) ballistic or cruise missile weapons or materials 
            or components of such weapons;
                (iii) destabilizing numbers and types of advanced 
            conventional weapons;
                (iv) defense articles or defense services, as those 
            terms are defined in paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively, 
            of section 47 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 
            2794);
                (v) defense information, as that term is defined in 
            section 644 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 
            U.S.C. 2403); or
                (vi) items designated by the President for purposes of 
            the United States Munitions List under section 38(a)(1) of 
            the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778(a)(1)).
SEC. 5522. ASSESSMENTS REGARDING THE NORTHERN TRIANGLE AND MEXICO.
    (a) Assessment.--
        (1) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
    coordination with the Under Secretary of Homeland Security for 
    Intelligence and Analysis, the Assistant Secretary of State for 
    Intelligence and Research, the Chief of Intelligence of the Drug 
    Enforcement Administration, and other appropriate officials in the 
    intelligence community, shall submit to the appropriate 
    congressional committees a report containing a comprehensive 
    assessment of drug trafficking, human trafficking, and human 
    smuggling activities in the Northern Triangle and Mexico.
        (2) Matters included.--The report under paragraph (1) shall 
    include, at a minimum, the following:
            (A) An assessment of the effect of drug trafficking, human 
        trafficking, and human smuggling on the security and economic 
        situation in the Northern Triangle.
            (B) An assessment of the effect of the activities of drug 
        trafficking organizations on the migration of persons from the 
        Northern Triangle to the United States-Mexico border.
            (C) A summary of any relevant activities by elements of the 
        intelligence community in relation to drug trafficking, human 
        trafficking, and human smuggling in the Northern Triangle and 
        Mexico.
            (D) An assessment of methods and routes used by drug 
        trafficking organizations, human traffickers, and human 
        smugglers to move drugs, persons, or both from the Northern 
        Triangle and Mexico to the United States.
            (E) An assessment of the intersection between the 
        activities of drug trafficking organizations, human traffickers 
        and human smugglers, and other organized criminal groups in the 
        Northern Triangle and Mexico.
            (F) An assessment of the illicit funds and financial 
        transactions that support the activities of drug trafficking 
        organizations, human traffickers, and human smugglers, and 
        connected criminal enterprises, in the Northern Triangle and 
        Mexico.
            (G) A comprehensive review of the current collection 
        priorities of the intelligence community for the Northern 
        Triangle and Mexico, as of the date of the enactment of this 
        Act, in order to identify whether such priorities are 
        appropriate and sufficient in light of the threat posed by the 
        activities of drug trafficking organizations and human 
        traffickers and human smugglers to the security of the United 
        States and the Western Hemisphere.
        (3) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) may be 
    submitted in classified form, but if so submitted, shall contain an 
    unclassified summary.
        (4) Availability.--The report under paragraph (1), or the 
    unclassified summary of the report described in paragraph (3), 
    shall be made publicly available.
    (b) Briefings.--
        (1) Semiannual requirement.--Not later than 90 days after the 
    date on which the report under subsection (a) is submitted, and 
    every 180 days thereafter for a 5-year period, the Director of 
    National Intelligence shall provide to the congressional 
    intelligence committees a briefing on the intelligence community's 
    collection priorities and activities in the Northern Triangle and 
    Mexico with a focus on the threat posed by the activities of drug 
    trafficking organizations and human traffickers and human smugglers 
    to the security of the United States and the Western Hemisphere.
        (2) Matters included.--Each briefing under paragraph (1) shall 
    include a description of the funds expended by the intelligence 
    community on the efforts described in such paragraph during the 
    preceding fiscal year, except the first such briefing shall cover 
    fiscal years 2018 and 2019.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
        Homeland Security, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the House of Representatives; and
            (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
        Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, and the Select 
        Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.
        (2) Human trafficking.--The term ``human trafficking'' has the 
    meaning given the term ``severe forms of trafficking in persons'' 
    by section 103 of the Victims of Trafficking and Violence 
    Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102).
        (3) Northern triangle.--The term ``Northern Triangle'' means El 
    Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras.

         TITLE LVI--FEDERAL EFFORTS AGAINST DOMESTIC TERRORISM

SEC. 5601. DEFINITIONS.
    In this title:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the 
        Committee on Homeland Security, and the Committee on the 
        Judiciary of the House of Representatives; and
            (B) the Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on 
        Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, and the Committee 
        on the Judiciary of the Senate.
        (2) Domestic terrorism.--The term ``domestic terrorism'' has 
    the meaning given that term in section 2331 of title 18, United 
    States Code.
        (3) Hate crime.--The term ``hate crime'' means a criminal 
    offense under--
            (A) sections 241, 245, 247, and 249 of title 18, United 
        States Code; and
            (B) section 3631 of title 42, United States Code.
        (4) International terrorism.--The term ``international 
    terrorism'' has the meaning given that term in section 2331 of 
    title 18, United States Code.
        (5) Terms in attorney general's guidelines for domestic fbi 
    operations.--The terms ``assessments'', ``full investigations'', 
    ``enterprise investigations'', ``predicated investigations'', and 
    ``preliminary investigations'' have the meanings given those terms 
    in the most recent, approved version of the Attorney General's 
    Guidelines for Domestic FBI Operations (or successor).
        (6) Terms in fbi budget materials.--The terms ``Consolidated 
    Strategy Guide'', ``Field Office Strategic Plan'', ``Integrated 
    Program Management Process'', and ``Threat Review and 
    Prioritization'' have the meanings given those terms in the 
    materials submitted to Congress by the Attorney General in support 
    of the Federal Bureau of Investigation budget for fiscal year 2020.
        (7) Terrorism.--The term ``terrorism'' includes domestic 
    terrorism and international terrorism.
        (8) Terrorism information.--The term ``terrorism information'' 
    has the meaning given that term in section 1016(a) of the 
    Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (6 U.S.C. 
    485).
        (9) Time utilization and recordkeeping data.--The term ``time 
    utilization and recordkeeping data'' means data collected on 
    resource utilization and workload activity of personnel of the 
    Federal Bureau of Investigation in accordance with Federal law.
SEC. 5602. STRATEGIC INTELLIGENCE ASSESSMENT OF AND REPORTS ON DOMESTIC 
TERRORISM.
    (a) Report on Standardization of Terminology and Procedures 
Relating to Domestic Terrorism.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation and the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation 
with the Director of National Intelligence in a manner consistent with 
the authorities and responsibilities of such Director, shall jointly--
        (1) develop, to the fullest extent feasible and for purposes of 
    internal recordkeeping and tracking, uniform and standardized--
            (A) definitions of the terms ``domestic terrorism'', ``act 
        of domestic terrorism'', ``domestic terrorism groups'', and any 
        other commonly used terms with respect to domestic terrorism;
            (B) methodologies for tracking incidents of domestic 
        terrorism; and
            (C) descriptions of categories and subcategories of--
                (i) domestic terrorism; and
                (ii) ideologies relating to domestic terrorism;
        (2) submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
    containing the information developed under paragraph (1).
    (b) Report Containing Strategic Intelligence Assessment and Data on 
Domestic Terrorism.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Director of the Federal Bureau of 
    Investigation and the Secretary of Homeland Security, in 
    consultation with the Director of National Intelligence in a manner 
    consistent with the authorities and responsibilities of such 
    Director, shall jointly submit to the appropriate congressional 
    committees a report on domestic terrorism containing the following:
            (A) The strategic intelligence assessment under paragraph 
        (2).
            (B) The discussion of activities under paragraph (3).
            (C) Data on domestic terrorism under paragraph (4).
            (D) Recommendations under paragraph (5).
        (2) Strategic intelligence assessment.--
            (A) Assessment required.--The Director of the Federal 
        Bureau of Investigation and the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
        in consultation with the Director of National Intelligence in a 
        manner consistent with the authorities and responsibilities of 
        such Director, shall prepare and include in the report under 
        paragraph (1) a strategic intelligence assessment of domestic 
        terrorism in the United States during fiscal years 2017, 2018, 
        and 2019.
            (B) Standards.--The Director of the Federal Bureau of 
        Investigation and the Secretary of Homeland Security, in 
        consultation with the Director of National Intelligence in a 
        manner consistent with the authorities and responsibilities of 
        such Director, shall ensure that the strategic assessment under 
        subparagraph (A) complies with the analytic integrity and 
        tradecraft standards of the intelligence community.
        (3) Discussion of activities.--The report under paragraph (1) 
    shall discuss and compare the following with respect to each 
    applicable element of the intelligence community:
            (A) The criteria for opening, managing, and closing 
        domestic and international terrorism investigations.
            (B) Standards and procedures for the Federal Bureau of 
        Investigation with respect to the review, prioritization, and 
        mitigation of domestic and international terrorism threats in 
        the United States.
            (C) The planning (including plans of analysis of the 
        Federal Bureau of Investigation, Department of Homeland 
        Security, and National Counterterrorism Center), development, 
        production, analysis, and evaluation of intelligence and 
        intelligence products relating to terrorism, noting any 
        differences with respect to domestic terrorism and 
        international terrorism.
            (D) The sharing of information relating to domestic and 
        international terrorism by and between--
                (i) the Federal Government;
                (ii) State, local, Tribal, territorial, and foreign 
            governments;
                (iii) the appropriate congressional committees;
                (iv) nongovernmental organizations; and
                (v) the private sector.
            (E) The criteria and methodology used by the Federal Bureau 
        of Investigation to identify or assign terrorism 
        classifications to investigations of domestic terrorism.
            (F) Compliance by the Federal Government with privacy, 
        civil rights, and civil liberties policies and protections 
        applicable to the production of the report under paragraph (1), 
        including protections against the public release of names or 
        other personally identifiable information of individuals 
        involved in incidents, investigations, indictments, 
        prosecutions, or convictions for which data is reported under 
        this section.
            (G) Information regarding any training or resources 
        provided by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department 
        of Homeland Security, or the National Counterterrorism Center, 
        to assist Federal, State, local, and Tribal law enforcement 
        agencies in understanding, detecting, deterring, and 
        investigating acts of domestic terrorism, including the date, 
        type, subject, and recipient agencies of such training or 
        resources.
        (4) Data on domestic terrorism.--
            (A) Data required.--In accordance with subparagraph (B), 
        the report under paragraph (1) shall include the following data 
        for the period beginning on January 1, 2009, and ending on the 
        date of the enactment of this Act:
                (i) For each completed or attempted incident of 
            domestic terrorism that has occurred in the United States 
            during such period--

                    (I) a description of such incident;
                    (II) the date and location of such incident;
                    (III) the number and type of completed and 
                attempted Federal nonviolent crimes committed during 
                such incident;
                    (IV) the number and type of completed and attempted 
                Federal and State property crimes committed during such 
                incident, including an estimate of economic damages 
                resulting from such crimes; and
                    (V) the number and type of completed and attempted 
                Federal violent crimes committed during such incident, 
                including the number of people injured or killed as a 
                result of such crimes.

                (ii) For such period--

                    (I) an identification of each assessment, 
                preliminary investigation, full investigation, and 
                enterprise investigation with a nexus to domestic 
                terrorism opened, pending, or closed by the Federal 
                Bureau of Investigation;
                    (II) the number of assessments or investigations 
                identified under subclause (I) associated with each 
                domestic terrorism investigative classification 
                (including subcategories);
                    (III) the number of assessments or investigations 
                described in subclause (II) initiated as a result of a 
                referral or investigation by a Federal, State, local, 
                Tribal, territorial, or foreign government, of a hate 
                crime;
                    (IV) the number of Federal criminal charges with a 
                nexus to domestic terrorism, including the number of 
                indictments and complaints associated with each 
                domestic terrorism investigative classification 
                (including subcategories), a summary of the allegations 
                contained in each such indictment, the disposition of 
                the prosecution, and, if applicable, the sentence 
                imposed as a result of a conviction on such charges;
                    (V) referrals of incidents of domestic terrorism by 
                or to State, local, Tribal, territorial, or foreign 
                governments, to or by departments or agencies of the 
                Federal Government, for investigation or prosecution, 
                including the number of such referrals associated with 
                each domestic terrorism investigation classification 
                (including any subcategories), and a summary of each 
                such referral that includes the rationale for such 
                referral and the disposition of the applicable Federal 
                investigation or prosecution;
                    (VI) intelligence products produced by the 
                intelligence community relating to domestic terrorism, 
                including, with respect to the Federal Bureau of 
                Investigation, the number of such products associated 
                with each domestic terrorism investigative 
                classification (including any subcategories);
                    (VII) with respect to the Federal Bureau of 
                Investigation--

                        (aa) the number of staff (expressed in terms of 
                    full-time equivalents and positions) working on 
                    matters relating to domestic terrorism described in 
                    subclauses (I) through (VI); and
                        (bb) a summary of time utilization and 
                    recordkeeping data for personnel working on such 
                    matters, including the number or percentage of such 
                    personnel associated with each domestic terrorism 
                    investigative classification (including any 
                    subcategories) in the FBI Headquarters Operational 
                    Divisions and Field Divisions;

                    (VIII) with respect to the Office of Intelligence 
                and Analysis of the Department of Homeland Security, 
                the number of staff (expressed in terms of full-time 
                equivalents and positions) working on matters relating 
                to domestic terrorism described in subclauses (I) 
                through (VI); and
                    (IX) with respect to the National Counterterrorism 
                Center, the number of staff (expressed in terms of 
                full-time equivalents and positions) working on matters 
                relating to domestic terrorism described in subclauses 
                (I) through (VI), and the applicable legal authorities 
                relating to the activities of such staff.

            (B) Collection and compilation.--The requirement to submit 
        data under paragraph (1)--
                (i) may not be construed to require the creation or 
            maintenance of any record that the Federal Bureau of 
            Investigation, the Department of Homeland Security, or the 
            National Counterterrorism Center, as the case may be, does 
            not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant 
            to another provision of law; and
                (ii) shall be carried out by collecting, compiling, or 
            otherwise using data and records that such entities 
            otherwise maintain or create.
            (C) Format.--The information required under subparagraph 
        (A) may be provided in a format that uses the marking 
        associated with the Central Records System (or any successor 
        system) of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
        (5) Recommendations.--
            (A) In general.--The report under paragraph (1) shall 
        include recommendations, including any constitutional analysis 
        conducted relating to such recommendations, with respect to the 
        following:
                (i) The necessity of changing authorities, roles, 
            resources, or responsibilities within the Federal 
            Government to more effectively prevent and counter domestic 
            terrorism activities.
                (ii) Measures necessary to ensure the protection of 
            privacy and civil liberties in the carrying out of 
            activities relating to countering domestic terrorism.
            (B) Consultation.--In developing recommendations pursuant 
        to subparagraph (A)(ii), the Director of the Federal Bureau of 
        Investigation and the Secretary of Homeland Security, in 
        consultation with the Director of National Intelligence, may 
        seek the advice of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight 
        Board.
    (c) Provision of Other Documents and Materials.--
        (1) In general.--Together with the report under subsection 
    (b)(1), the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the 
    Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Director 
    of National Intelligence in a manner consistent with the 
    authorities and responsibilities of such Director, shall also 
    submit to the appropriate congressional committees the following 
    documents and materials in complete and unredacted form:
            (A) With respect to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, at 
        a minimum, the most recent, approved versions of--
                (i) the Attorney General's Guidelines for Domestic FBI 
            Operations (or any successor);
                (ii) the FBI Domestic Investigations and Operations 
            Guide (or any successor);
                (iii) the FBI Counterterrorism Policy Guide (or any 
            successor); and
                (iv) materials sufficient to show the rankings of 
            domestic terrorism in relation to other threats within the 
            Threat Review and Prioritization process, with respect to 
            the headquarters and each field office of the Federal 
            Bureau of Investigation.
            (B) With respect to the intelligence community--
                (i) a list of all intelligence products described in 
            subsection (b)(4)(A)(ii)(VI); and
                (ii) a means of accessing each such product.
        (2) Nonduplication.--If any documents or materials required 
    under paragraph (1) have been previously submitted to the 
    appropriate congressional committees under such paragraph and have 
    not been modified since such submission, the Director of the 
    Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Secretary of Homeland 
    Security, and the Director of National Intelligence may provide a 
    list of such documents or materials in lieu of making the 
    submission under paragraph (1) for those documents or materials.
    (d) Annual Updates.--During the 5-year period following the date of 
the submission of the reports under subsections (b) and (c), the 
Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, in consultation with the Director of National 
Intelligence in a manner consistent with the authorities and 
responsibilities of such Director, shall jointly submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees annual updates to the reports 
submitted under subsections (a), (b), and (c).
    (e) Classification and Public Release.--The reports under 
subsections (a), (b), and (d) shall be--
        (1) unclassified, but may contain a classified annex;
        (2) with respect to the unclassified portion of the report, 
    made available on the public internet websites of the Federal 
    Bureau of Investigation, the Department of Homeland Security, and 
    the National Counterterrorism Center--
            (A) not later than 30 days after submission to the 
        appropriate congressional committees; and
            (B) in an electronic format that is fully indexed and 
        searchable; and
        (3) with respect to a classified annex, submitted to the 
    appropriate congressional committees in an electronic format that 
    is fully indexed and searchable.
    (f) Information Quality.--The reports under subsections (a), (b), 
and (d), to the extent applicable, shall comply with the guidelines 
issued by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget pursuant 
to section 515 of title V of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2001 
(Public Law 106-554; 114 Stat. 2763A-154).

                 TITLE LVII--REPORTS AND OTHER MATTERS
                   Subtitle A--Reports and Briefings

SEC. 5701. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS OF 
CERTAIN REPORTS.
    (a) Modification of Reports Relating to Guantanamo Bay.--
        (1) Modification.--Section 506I(b) of the National Security Act 
    of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3105(b)) is amended by striking ``once every 6 
    months'' and inserting ``annually''.
        (2) Modification.--Section 319(a) of the Supplemental 
    Appropriations Act, 2009 (10 U.S.C. 801 note) is amended by 
    striking ``every 90 days'' and inserting ``annually''.
    (b) Modification to Reports on Analytic Integrity.--Subsection (c) 
of section 1019 of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act 
of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 3364) is amended--
        (1) in the heading, by striking ``Reports'' and inserting 
    ``Briefings''; and
        (2) by striking ``submit to the congressional intelligence 
    committees, the heads of the relevant elements of the intelligence 
    community, and the heads of analytic training departments a report 
    containing'' and inserting ``provide to the congressional 
    intelligence committees, the heads of the relevant elements of the 
    intelligence community, and the heads of analytic training 
    departments a briefing with''.
    (c) Repeal of Reports Relating to Intelligence Functions.--Section 
506J of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3105a) is repealed 
and the table of contents in the first section of such Act is amended 
by striking the item relating to section 506J.
    (d) Modification of Required Reports Relating to Entertainment 
Industry.--Section 308 of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2017 (50 U.S.C. 3332) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)(2)--
            (A) by striking ``paragraph (1) shall--'' and all that 
        follows through ``permit an element'' and insert ``paragraph 
        (1) shall permit an element'';
            (B) by striking ``approval; and'' and inserting 
        ``approval.''; and
            (C) by striking subparagraph (B); and
        (2) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(c) Information on Prior Year Engagements.--At the written 
request of either of the congressional intelligence committees, the 
Director of National Intelligence shall submit to such committees 
information with respect to engagements occurring during the calendar 
year prior to the year during which such request is made. Such 
information may include--
        ``(1) a description of the nature and duration of each such 
    engagement;
        ``(2) the cost incurred by the United States Government for 
    each such engagement;
        ``(3) a description of the benefits to the United States 
    Government for each such engagement;
        ``(4) a determination of whether any information was 
    declassified, and whether any classified information was improperly 
    disclosed, for each such engagement; and
        ``(5) a description of the work produced through each such 
    engagement.''.
SEC. 5702. INCREASED TRANSPARENCY REGARDING COUNTERTERRORISM BUDGET OF 
THE UNITED STATES.
    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
        (1) Consistent with section 601(a) of the Implementing 
    Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007 (50 U.S.C. 
    3306(a)), the recent practice of the intelligence community has 
    been to release to the public--
            (A) around the date on which the President submits to 
        Congress a budget for a fiscal year pursuant to section 1105 of 
        title 31, United States Code, the ``top-line'' amount of total 
        funding requested for the National Intelligence Program for 
        such fiscal year; and
            (B) the amount of requested and appropriated funds for the 
        National Intelligence Program and Military Intelligence Program 
        for certain prior fiscal years, consistent with the protection 
        of intelligence sources and methods.
        (2) The Directorate of Strategic Operational Planning of the 
    National Counterterrorism Center is responsible for producing an 
    annual National Counterterrorism Budget report, which examines the 
    alignment of intelligence and other resources in the applicable 
    fiscal year budget with the counterterrorism goals and areas of 
    focus in the National Strategy for Counterterrorism.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) despite the difficulty of compiling and releasing to the 
    public comprehensive information on the resource commitments of the 
    United States to counterterrorism activities and programs, 
    including with respect to such activities and programs of the 
    intelligence community, the United States Government could take 
    additional steps to enhance the understanding of the public with 
    respect to such resource commitments, in a manner consistent with 
    the protection of intelligence sources and methods and other 
    national security interests; and
        (2) the United States Government should release to the public 
    as much information as possible regarding the funding of 
    counterterrorism activities and programs, including activities and 
    programs of the intelligence community, in a manner consistent with 
    the protection of intelligence sources and methods and other 
    national security interests.
    (c) Briefing on Public Release of Information.--
        (1) Requirement.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, and not later than 90 days after the 
    beginning of each fiscal year thereafter, the President shall 
    ensure that the congressional intelligence committees receive a 
    briefing from appropriate personnel of the United States Government 
    on the feasibility of releasing to the public additional 
    information relating to counterterrorism efforts of the 
    intelligence community.
        (2) Elements.--Each briefing required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include a discussion of the feasibility of--
            (A) subject to paragraph (3), releasing to the public the 
        National Counterterrorism Budget report described in subsection 
        (a)(2) for the prior fiscal year; and
            (B) declassifying other reports, documents, or activities 
        of the intelligence community relating to counterterrorism and 
        releasing such information to the public in a manner consistent 
        with the protection of intelligence sources and methods and 
        other national security interests.
        (3) Release of national counterterrorism budget report.--The 
    President may satisfy the requirement under paragraph (2)(A) during 
    a fiscal year by, not later than 90 days after the beginning of the 
    fiscal year, releasing to the public the National Counterterrorism 
    Budget report (with any redactions the Director determines 
    necessary to protect intelligence sources and methods and other 
    national security interests) for the prior fiscal year.
SEC. 5703. STUDY ON ROLE OF RETIRED AND FORMER PERSONNEL OF 
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY WITH RESPECT TO CERTAIN FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE 
OPERATIONS.
    (a) Study.--The Director of National Intelligence shall conduct a 
study on former intelligence personnel providing covered intelligence 
assistance.
    (b) Elements.--The study under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
        (1) An identification of, and discussion of the effectiveness 
    of, existing laws, policies, procedures, and other measures 
    relevant to the ability of elements of the intelligence community 
    to prevent former intelligence personnel from providing covered 
    intelligence assistance--
            (A) without proper authorization; or
            (B) in a manner that would violate legal or policy controls 
        if the personnel performed such assistance while working for 
        the United States Government; and
        (2) Make recommendations for such legislative, regulatory, 
    policy, or other changes as may be necessary to ensure that the 
    United States consistently meets the objectives described in 
    paragraph (1).
    (c) Report and Plan.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to the congressional 
intelligence committees, the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on Homeland 
Security of the House of Representatives--
        (1) a report on the findings of the Director with respect to 
    each element of the study under subsection (a); and
        (2) a plan to implement any recommendations made by the 
    Director that the Director may implement without changes to Federal 
    law.
    (d) Form.--The report and plan under subsection (c) may be 
submitted in classified form.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Covered intelligence assistance.--The term ``covered 
    intelligence assistance'' means assistance--
            (A) provided by former intelligence personnel directly to, 
        or for the benefit of, the government of a foreign country or 
        indirectly to, or for the benefit of, such a government through 
        a company or other entity; and
            (B) that relates to intelligence, military, or law 
        enforcement activities of a foreign country, including with 
        respect to operations that involve abuses of human rights, 
        violations of the laws of the United States, or infringements 
        on the privacy rights of United States persons.
        (2) Former intelligence personnel.--The term ``former 
    intelligence personnel'' means retired or former personnel of the 
    intelligence community, including civilian employees of elements of 
    the intelligence community, members of the Armed Forces, and 
    contractors of elements of the intelligence community.
SEC. 5704. COLLECTION, ANALYSIS, AND DISSEMINATION OF WORKFORCE DATA.
    (a) Modification of Requirement for Annual Report on Hiring and 
Retention of Minority Employees.--
        (1) Expansion of period of report.--Subsection (a) of section 
    114 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3050) is 
    amended by inserting ``and the preceding 5 fiscal years'' after 
    ``fiscal year''.
        (2) Clarification on disaggregation of data.--Subsection (b) of 
    such section is amended, in the matter before paragraph (1), by 
    striking ``disaggregated data by category of covered person from 
    each element of the intelligence community'' and inserting ``data, 
    disaggregated by category of covered person and by element of the 
    intelligence community,''.
    (b) Initial Reporting.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, and subject to paragraph (3), the Director 
    of National Intelligence shall make available to the public, the 
    appropriate congressional committees, and the workforce of the 
    intelligence community a report which includes aggregate 
    demographic data and other information regarding the diversity and 
    inclusion efforts of the workforce of the intelligence community.
        (2) Contents.--A report made available under paragraph (1)--
            (A) shall include unclassified reports and barrier analyses 
        relating to diversity and inclusion efforts;
            (B) shall include aggregate demographic data--
                (i) by segment of the workforce of the intelligence 
            community and grade or rank;
                (ii) relating to attrition and promotion rates;
                (iii) that addresses the compliance of the intelligence 
            community with validated inclusion metrics, such as the New 
            Inclusion Quotient index score; and
                (iv) that provides demographic comparisons to the 
            relevant nongovernmental labor force and the relevant 
            civilian labor force;
            (C) shall include an analysis of applicant flow data, 
        including the percentage and level of positions for which data 
        are collected, and a discussion of any resulting policy changes 
        or recommendations;
            (D) shall include demographic data relating to participants 
        in professional development programs of the intelligence 
        community and the rate of placement into senior positions for 
        participants in such programs;
            (E) shall include any voluntarily collected demographic 
        data relating to the membership of any external advisory 
        committee or board to which individuals in senior positions in 
        the intelligence community appoint members; and
            (F) may include data in proportions or percentages to 
        account for concerns relating to the protection of classified 
        information.
    (c) Updates.--After making available a report under subsection (b), 
the Director of National Intelligence shall annually provide a report 
(which may be provided as part of an annual report required under 
another provision of law) to the workforce of the intelligence 
community (including senior leadership), the public, and the 
appropriate congressional committees that includes--
        (1) demographic data and information on the status of diversity 
    and inclusion efforts of the intelligence community;
        (2) an analysis of applicant flow data, including the 
    percentage and level of positions for which data are collected, and 
    a discussion of any resulting policy changes or recommendations; 
    and
        (3) demographic data relating to participants in professional 
    development programs of the intelligence community and the rate of 
    placement into senior positions for participants in such programs.
    (d) Expand the Collection and Analysis of Voluntary Applicant Flow 
Data.--
        (1) In general.--The Director of National Intelligence shall 
    develop a system to collect and analyze applicant flow data for as 
    many positions within the intelligence community as practicable, in 
    order to identify areas for improvement in attracting diverse 
    talent, with particular attention to senior and management 
    positions.
        (2) Phased implementation.--The collection of applicant flow 
    data may be implemented by the Director of National Intelligence in 
    a phased approach commensurate with the resources available to the 
    intelligence community.
    (e) Identify Additional Categories for Voluntary Data Collection of 
Current Employees.--
        (1) In general.--The Director of National Intelligence may 
    submit to the Office of Management and Budget and to the 
    appropriate congressional committees a recommendation regarding 
    whether the intelligence community should voluntarily collect more 
    detailed data on demographic categories in addition to the race and 
    ethnicity categories specified in the statistical policy directive 
    issued by the Office of Management and Budget entitled ``Standards 
    for Maintaining, Collecting, and Presenting Federal Data on Race 
    and Ethnicity''.
        (2) Process.--In making a recommendation under paragraph (1), 
    the Director of National Intelligence shall--
            (A) engage in close consultation with internal 
        stakeholders, such as employee resource or affinity groups;
            (B) ensure that there is clear communication with the 
        workforce of the intelligence community--
                (i) to explain the purpose of the potential collection 
            of such data; and
                (ii) regarding legal protections relating to any 
            anticipated use of such data; and
            (C) ensure adherence to relevant standards and guidance 
        issued by the Federal Government.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Applicant flow data.--The term ``applicant flow data'' 
    means data that tracks the rate of applications for job positions 
    among demographic categories.
        (2) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
        Armed Services, the Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs, the Select Committee on Intelligence, and 
        the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
        Armed Services, the Committee on Homeland Security, the 
        Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Committee 
        on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
        (3) Diversity.--The term ``diversity'' means diversity of 
    persons based on gender, race, ethnicity, disability status, 
    veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, national 
    origin, and other demographic categories.
SEC. 5705. PLAN FOR STRENGTHENING THE SUPPLY CHAIN INTELLIGENCE 
FUNCTION.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the National Counterintelligence 
and Security Center, in coordination with the Director of the Defense 
Counterintelligence and Security Agency and other interagency partners, 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a plan for 
strengthening the supply chain intelligence function.
    (b) Elements.--The plan submitted under subsection (a) shall 
address the following:
        (1) The appropriate workforce model, including size, mix, and 
    seniority, from the elements of the intelligence community and 
    other interagency partners.
        (2) The budgetary resources necessary to implement the plan.
        (3) The appropriate governance structure within the 
    intelligence community and with interagency partners.
        (4) The authorities necessary to implement the plan.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--The term 
``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional intelligence committees; and
        (2) the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
    Representatives and the Senate.
SEC. 5706. COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT OF INVESTMENT IN KEY 
UNITED STATES TECHNOLOGIES BY COMPANIES OR ORGANIZATIONS LINKED TO 
CHINA.
    (a) Assessment Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
coordination with the Director of the National Counterintelligence and 
Security Center, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, 
the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, the Secretary of the 
Treasury, and the heads of such other Federal agencies as the Director 
of National Intelligence considers appropriate, shall submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees a comprehensive economic 
assessment of investment in key United States technologies, including 
emerging technologies, by companies or organizations linked to China, 
including the implications of these investments for the national 
security of the United States.
    (b) Form of Assessment.--The assessment submitted under subsection 
(a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
classified annex.
SEC. 5707. REPORT BY DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE ON FIFTH-
GENERATION WIRELESS NETWORK TECHNOLOGY.
    (a) Definition of Appropriate Committees of Congress.--In this 
section, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the congressional intelligence committees;
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
        (3) Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
    Representatives.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on--
        (1) the threat to the national security of the United States 
    posed by the global and regional adoption of fifth-generation 
    wireless network (known as ``5G'') technology built by foreign 
    companies;
        (2) the threat to the national security of the United States 
    posed by telecommunications companies that are subject to the 
    jurisdiction of a foreign adversary; and
        (3) possible efforts to mitigate the threat.
    (c) Contents.--The report under subsection (b) shall include--
        (1) the timeline and scale of global and regional adoption of 
    foreign fifth-generation wireless network technology;
        (2) the implications of such global and regional adoption on 
    the cyber and espionage threat to the United States, the interests 
    of the United States, and the cyber and collection capabilities of 
    the United States;
        (3) the threat to the national security of the United States 
    from acquisition, importation, transfer, installation, or use of 
    any communications technology by any person subject to the 
    jurisdiction of the United States that involves communications 
    technology designed, developed, manufactured or supplied by, 
    controlled by, or subject to, the jurisdiction of a foreign 
    adversary; and
        (4) the effect of possible mitigation efforts, including with 
    respect to--
            (A) a policy of the United States Government promoting the 
        use of strong, end-to-end encryption for data transmitted over 
        fifth-generation wireless networks;
            (B) a policy of the United States Government promoting or 
        funding free, open-source implementation of fifth-generation 
        wireless network technology;
            (C) subsidies or incentives provided by the United States 
        Government that could be used to promote the adoption of secure 
        fifth-generation wireless network technology developed by 
        companies of the United States or companies of allies of the 
        United States; and
            (D) a strategy by the United States Government to reduce 
        foreign influence and political pressure in international 
        standard-setting bodies.
    (d) Form.--The report submitted under subsection (b) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 5708. REPORT ON USE BY INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY OF FACIAL 
RECOGNITION TECHNOLOGY.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the use of facial recognition technology for the purpose of 
    suppressing or burdening criticism or dissent, or for 
    disadvantaging persons based on their ethnicity, race, gender, 
    sexual orientation, or religion, is contrary to the values of the 
    United States;
        (2) the United States Government should not engage in the sale 
    or transfer of facial recognition technology to any country that is 
    using such technology for the suppression of human rights; and
        (3) it is incumbent upon the intelligence community to develop 
    clear policies and procedures that prevent the abuse of facial 
    recognition technology.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on the use 
of facial recognition technology by the intelligence community. Such 
report shall include each of the following:
        (1) An analysis of the current use of facial recognition 
    technology by the intelligence community.
        (2) An analysis of the accuracy of facial recognition 
    technology, including a discussion of the appropriate threshold for 
    use, and data disaggregated by race, gender, ethnicity, and age.
        (3) Whether the Government has adequate procedures in place to 
    audit or test technology they purchase to assess its accuracy, 
    including on the basis of race, gender, ethnicity, and age.
        (4) The extent to which the intelligence community has codified 
    policies governing the use of facial recognition technology that 
    adequately prevent adverse impacts on privacy, civil rights, and 
    civil liberties.
        (5) An analysis of the ability of the intelligence community to 
    use facial recognition technology to identify individuals in a way 
    that respects constitutional rights, civil rights, civil liberties, 
    and privacy of such individuals.
        (6) Identification of risks and safeguards to uphold the 
    constitutional rights, civil rights, civil liberties, and privacy 
    of individuals, including for communities of color and religious 
    minorities.
        (7) Whether such technology is deployed in public areas or on 
    photos of public areas in a manner that could raise First Amendment 
    concerns.
        (8) An identification of existing policies, procedures, or 
    practices that permit the sharing of facial recognition data and 
    technology with foreign governments or other non-United States 
    Government entities.
        (9) An identification of measures in place to protect data 
    security.
        (10) An identification of any redress procedures to address 
    complaints in cases where the use of facial recognition resulted in 
    harm to an individual.
        (11) An analysis of existing transparency, oversight, and 
    audits of the use of facial recognition to measure the efficacy of 
    the technology on an ongoing basis, as measured against the cost 
    and impact on individual rights.
    (c) Form.--The report under subsection (a) shall be submitted in 
unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Facial Recognition Data Defined.--In this section, the term 
``facial recognition data'' means any unique attribute or feature of 
the face of an end user that is used by facial recognition technology 
to assign a unique, persistent identifier, or for the unique personal 
identification of a specific individual.
SEC. 5709. REPORT ON DEEPFAKE TECHNOLOGY, FOREIGN WEAPONIZATION OF 
DEEPFAKES, AND RELATED NOTIFICATIONS.
    (a) Report on Foreign Weaponization of Deepfakes and Deepfake 
Technology.--
        (1) Report required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, 
    in consultation with the heads of the elements of the intelligence 
    community determined appropriate by the Director, shall submit to 
    the congressional intelligence committees a report on--
            (A) the potential national security impacts of machine-
        manipulated media (commonly known as ``deepfakes''); and
            (B) the actual or potential use of machine-manipulated 
        media by foreign governments to spread disinformation or engage 
        in other malign activities.
        (2) Matters to be included.--The report under subsection (a) 
    shall include the following:
            (A) An assessment of the technical capabilities of foreign 
        governments, including foreign intelligence services, foreign 
        government-affiliated entities, and foreign individuals, with 
        respect to machine-manipulated media, machine-generated text, 
        generative adversarial networks, and related machine-learning 
        technologies, including--
                (i) an assessment of the technical capabilities of the 
            People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation with 
            respect to the production and detection of machine-
            manipulated media; and
                (ii) an annex describing those governmental elements 
            within China and Russia known to have supported or 
            facilitated machine-manipulated media research, 
            development, or dissemination, as well as any civil-
            military fusion, private-sector, academic, or 
            nongovernmental entities which have meaningfully 
            participated in such activities.
            (B) An updated assessment of how foreign governments, 
        including foreign intelligence services, foreign government-
        affiliated entities, and foreign individuals, could use or are 
        using machine-manipulated media and machine-generated text to 
        harm the national security interests of the United States, 
        including an assessment of the historic, current, or potential 
        future efforts of China and Russia to use machine-manipulated 
        media, including with respect to--
                (i) the overseas or domestic dissemination of 
            misinformation;
                (ii) the attempted discrediting of political opponents 
            or disfavored populations; and
                (iii) intelligence or influence operations directed 
            against the United States, allies or partners of the United 
            States, or other jurisdictions believed to be subject to 
            Chinese or Russian interference.
            (C) An updated identification of the countertechnologies 
        that have been or could be developed and deployed by the United 
        States Government, or by the private sector with Government 
        support, to deter, detect, and attribute the use of machine-
        manipulated media and machine-generated text by foreign 
        governments, foreign-government affiliates, or foreign 
        individuals, along with an analysis of the benefits, 
        limitations and drawbacks of such identified counter-
        technologies, including any emerging concerns related to 
        privacy.
            (D) An identification of the offices within the elements of 
        the intelligence community that have, or should have, lead 
        responsibility for monitoring the development of, use of, and 
        response to machine-manipulated media and machine-generated 
        text, including--
                (i) a description of the coordination of such efforts 
            across the intelligence community;
                (ii) a detailed description of the existing 
            capabilities, tools, and relevant expertise of such 
            elements to determine whether a piece of media has been 
            machine manipulated or machine generated, including the 
            speed at which such determination can be made, the 
            confidence level of the element in the ability to make such 
            a determination accurately, and how increasing volume and 
            improved quality of machine-manipulated media or machine-
            generated text may negatively impact such capabilities; and
                (iii) a detailed description of planned or ongoing 
            research and development efforts intended to improve the 
            ability of the intelligence community to detect machine-
            manipulated media and machine-generated text.
            (E) A description of any research and development 
        activities carried out or under consideration to be carried out 
        by the intelligence community, including the Intelligence 
        Advanced Research Projects Activity, relevant to machine-
        manipulated media and machine-generated text detection 
        technologies.
            (F) Updated recommendations regarding whether the 
        intelligence community requires additional legal authorities, 
        financial resources, or specialized personnel to address the 
        national security threat posed by machine-manipulated media and 
        machine-generated text.
            (G) Other additional information the Director determines 
        appropriate.
    (b) Form.--The report under subsection (a) shall be submitted in 
unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (c) Requirement for Notification.--The Director of National 
Intelligence, in cooperation with the heads of any other relevant 
departments or agencies of the Federal Government, shall notify the 
congressional intelligence committees each time the Director of 
National Intelligence determines--
        (1) there is credible information or intelligence that a 
    foreign entity has attempted, is attempting, or will attempt to 
    deploy machine-manipulated media or machine-generated text aimed at 
    the elections or domestic political processes of the United States; 
    and
        (2) that such intrusion or campaign can be attributed to a 
    foreign government, a foreign government-affiliated entity, or a 
    foreign individual.
    (d) Annual Update.--Upon submission of the report in subsection 
(a), on an annual basis, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
consultation with the heads of the elements of the intelligence 
community determined appropriate by the Director, shall submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees any significant updates with 
respect to the matters described in subsection (a).
    (e) Definitions.--
        (1) Machine-generated text.--The term ``machine-generated 
    text'' means text generated using machine-learning techniques in 
    order to resemble writing in natural language.
        (2) Machine-manipulated media.--The term ``machine-manipulated 
    media'' has the meaning given that term in section 5724.
SEC. 5710. ANNUAL REPORT BY COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES ON 
CYBERSECURITY AND SURVEILLANCE THREATS TO CONGRESS.
    (a) Annual Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act and not less frequently than once each 
year thereafter, the Comptroller General of the United States shall 
submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on 
cybersecurity and surveillance threats to Congress.
    (b) Statistics.--Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall 
include statistics on cyber attacks and other incidents of espionage or 
surveillance targeted against Senators or the immediate families or 
staff of the Senators, and Representatives, Delegates, and the Resident 
Commissioner, or the immediate families or staff of the 
Representatives, Delegates, and the Resident Commissioner, in which the 
nonpublic communications and other private information of such targeted 
individuals were lost, stolen, or otherwise subject to unauthorized 
access.
    (c) Consultation.--In preparing a report to be submitted under 
subsection (a), the Comptroller General shall consult with the Director 
of National Intelligence, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the 
Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives, and the Sergeant at 
Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate.
    (d) Form.--The report under subsection (a), including the contents 
of the report in subsection (b), shall be submitted in unclassified 
form, but may include a classified annex to protect sources and methods 
and any appropriate redactions of personally identifiable information.
SEC. 5711. ANALYSIS OF AND PERIODIC BRIEFINGS ON MAJOR INITIATIVES OF 
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY IN ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND MACHINE LEARNING.
    (a) Analysis.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall, 
    in coordination with the heads of such elements of the intelligence 
    community as the Director considers appropriate--
            (A) complete a comprehensive analysis of the major 
        initiatives of the intelligence community in artificial 
        intelligence and machine learning; and
            (B) provide to the congressional intelligence committees a 
        briefing on the findings of the Director with respect to the 
        analysis conducted pursuant to subparagraph (A).
        (2) Elements.--The analysis conducted under paragraph (1)(A) 
    shall include analyses of how the initiatives described in such 
    paragraph--
            (A) correspond with the strategy of the intelligence 
        community entitled ``Augmenting Intelligence Using Machines'';
            (B) complement each other and avoid unnecessary 
        duplication;
            (C) are coordinated with the efforts of the Defense 
        Department on artificial intelligence, including efforts at the 
        Joint Artificial Intelligence Center and Project Maven; and
            (D) leverage advances in artificial intelligence and 
        machine learning in the private sector.
    (b) Periodic Briefings.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, not less frequently than twice each year 
thereafter until the date that is 2 years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than once each year 
thereafter until the date that is 7 years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director and the Chief Information Officer 
of the Department of Defense shall jointly provide to the congressional 
intelligence committees and congressional defense committees (as 
defined in section 101 of title 10, United States Code) briefings with 
updates on activities relating to, and the progress of, their 
respective artificial intelligence and machine learning initiatives, 
particularly the Augmenting Intelligence Using Machines initiative and 
the Joint Artificial Intelligence Center.
SEC. 5712. REPORT ON BEST PRACTICES TO PROTECT PRIVACY AND CIVIL 
LIBERTIES OF CHINESE AMERICANS.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the People's Republic of China appears to be specifically 
    targeting the Chinese-American community for intelligence purposes;
        (2) such targeting carries a substantial risk that the loyalty 
    of such Americans may be generally questioned and lead to 
    unacceptable stereotyping, targeting, and racial profiling;
        (3) the United States Government has a duty to warn and protect 
    all Americans including those of Chinese descent from these 
    intelligence efforts by the People's Republic of China;
        (4) the broad stereotyping, targeting, and racial profiling of 
    Americans of Chinese descent is contrary to the values of the 
    United States and reinforces the flawed narrative perpetuated by 
    the People's Republic of China that ethnically Chinese individuals 
    worldwide have a duty to support the People's Republic of China; 
    and
        (5) the United States efforts to combat the People's Republic 
    of China's intelligence activities should actively safeguard and 
    promote the constitutional rights of all Chinese Americans.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, acting 
through the Office of Civil Liberties, Privacy, and Transparency, in 
coordination with the civil liberties and privacy officers of the 
elements of the intelligence community, shall submit a report to the 
congressional intelligence committees containing--
        (1) a review of how the policies, procedures, and practices of 
    the intelligence community that govern the intelligence activities 
    and operations targeting the People's Republic of China affect 
    policies, procedures, and practices relating to the privacy and 
    civil liberties of Americans of Chinese descent who may be targets 
    of espionage and influence operations by China; and
        (2) recommendations to ensure that the privacy and civil 
    liberties of Americans of Chinese descent are sufficiently 
    protected.
    (c) Form.--The report under subsection (b) shall be submitted in 
unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 5713. OVERSIGHT OF FOREIGN INFLUENCE IN ACADEMIA.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Covered institution of higher education.--The term 
    ``covered institution of higher education'' means an institution 
    described in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
    U.S.C. 1002) that receives Federal funds in any amount and for any 
    purpose.
        (2) Sensitive research subject.--The term ``sensitive research 
    subject'' means a subject of research that is carried out at a 
    covered institution of higher education that receives funds that 
    were appropriated for--
            (A) the National Intelligence Program; or
            (B) any Federal agency the Director of National 
        Intelligence deems appropriate.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act and not less frequently than once each year 
thereafter, the Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with 
such elements of the intelligence community as the Director considers 
appropriate and consistent with the privacy protections afforded to 
United States persons, shall submit to congressional intelligence 
committees a report on risks to sensitive research subjects posed by 
foreign entities in order to provide Congress and covered institutions 
of higher education with more complete information on these risks and 
to help ensure academic freedom.
    (c) Contents.--The report required by subsection (b) shall include 
the following:
        (1) A list of sensitive research subjects that could affect 
    national security.
        (2) A list of foreign entities, including governments, 
    corporations, nonprofit organizations and for-profit organizations, 
    and any subsidiary or affiliate of such an entity, that the 
    Director determines pose a counterintelligence, espionage 
    (including economic espionage), or other national security threat 
    with respect to sensitive research subjects.
        (3) A list of any known or suspected attempts by foreign 
    entities to exert pressure on covered institutions of higher 
    education, including attempts to limit freedom of speech, propagate 
    misinformation or disinformation, or to influence professors, 
    researchers, or students.
        (4) Recommendations for collaboration between covered 
    institutions of higher education and the intelligence community to 
    mitigate threats to sensitive research subjects associated with 
    foreign influence in academia, including any necessary legislative 
    or administrative action.
    (d) Congressional Notifications Required.--Not later than 30 days 
after the date on which the Director identifies a change to either list 
described in paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (c), the Director shall 
notify the congressional intelligence committees of the change.
SEC. 5714. REPORT ON DEATH OF JAMAL KHASHOGGI.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to Congress a report on the death of Jamal Khashoggi, consistent 
with protecting sources and methods. Such report shall include 
identification of those who carried out, participated in, ordered, or 
were otherwise complicit in or responsible for the death of Jamal 
Khashoggi.
    (b) Form.--The report submitted under subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form.
SEC. 5715. REPORT ON TERRORIST SCREENING DATABASE.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence and the 
Secretary of State shall jointly submit to the congressional 
intelligence committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House 
of Representatives, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
Senate a report on the terrorist screening database of the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation.
    (b) Matters Included.--The report under subsection (a) shall 
identify the following:
        (1) Which foreign countries receive access to the terrorist 
    screening database.
        (2) Which foreign countries have successfully petitioned to add 
    individuals to the terrorist screening database.
        (3) What standards exist for determining which countries get 
    access to the terrorist screening database.
        (4) The extent to which the human rights record of the 
    government of a foreign country is considered in the determination 
    to give the country access to the terrorist screening database.
        (5) What procedures, if any, exist to remove access to the 
    terrorist screening database from a foreign country.
        (6) What procedures, if any, exist to inform an individual, or 
    the legal counsel of an individual, of the placement of the 
    individual on the terrorist screening database.
    (c) Form.--The report under subsection (a) shall be submitted in 
unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 5716. REPORT CONTAINING THREAT ASSESSMENT ON TERRORIST USE OF 
CONVENTIONAL AND ADVANCED CONVENTIONAL WEAPONS.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for a period of 4 years, 
the Under Secretary of Homeland Security for Intelligence and Analysis, 
in coordination with the Director of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation, shall develop and submit to the entities in accordance 
with subsection (b) a report containing a threat assessment regarding 
the availability of conventional weapons, including conventional 
weapons lacking serial numbers, and advanced conventional weapons, for 
use in furthering acts of terrorism, including the provision of 
material support or resources to a foreign terrorist organization and 
to individuals or groups supporting or engaging in domestic terrorism.
    (b) Dissemination of Report.--Consistent with the protection of 
classified and confidential unclassified information, the Under 
Secretary shall--
        (1) submit the initial report required under subsection (a) to 
    Federal, State, local, and Tribal law enforcement officials, 
    including officials who operate within State, local, and regional 
    fusion centers under the Department of Homeland Security State, 
    Local, and Regional Fusion Center Initiative established by section 
    210A of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 124h); and
        (2) submit each report required under subsection (a) to the 
    appropriate congressional committees.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the 
        Committee on Homeland Security, and the Committee on the 
        Judiciary of the House of Representatives; and
            (B) the Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on 
        Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, and the Committee 
        on the Judiciary of the Senate.
        (2) Domestic terrorism.--The term ``domestic terrorism'' has 
    the meaning given that term in section 2331 of title 18, United 
    States Code.
        (3) Foreign terrorist organization.--The term ``foreign 
    terrorist organization'' means an organization designated as a 
    foreign terrorist organization under section 219 of the Immigration 
    and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).
SEC. 5717. ASSESSMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY VULNERABILITIES ASSOCIATED 
WITH CERTAIN RETIRED AND FORMER PERSONNEL OF THE INTELLIGENCE 
COMMUNITY.
    (a) Assessment Required.--Not later than the date that is 120 days 
after submission of the report required under section 5703, and 
annually thereafter, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
coordination with the Under Secretary of Homeland Security for 
Intelligence and Analysis, the Director of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, and the 
Director of the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency, shall 
submit to the appropriate congressional committees an assessment of the 
homeland security vulnerabilities associated with retired and former 
personnel of the intelligence community providing covered intelligence 
assistance.
    (b) Form.--The assessment under subsection (a) may be submitted in 
classified form.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the congressional intelligence committees;
            (B) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
        Affairs of the Senate; and
            (C) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
        Representatives.
        (2) Covered intelligence assistance.--The term ``covered 
    intelligence assistance'' has the meaning given that term in 
    section 5703.
SEC. 5718. STUDY ON FEASIBILITY AND ADVISABILITY OF ESTABLISHING 
GEOSPATIAL-INTELLIGENCE MUSEUM AND LEARNING CENTER.
    (a) Study Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the National Geospatial-
Intelligence Agency shall complete a study on the feasibility and 
advisability of establishing a Geospatial-Intelligence Museum and 
learning center.
    (b) Elements.--The study required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) Identifying the costs, opportunities, and challenges of 
    establishing the museum and learning center as described in such 
    subsection.
        (2) Developing recommendations concerning such establishment.
        (3) Identifying and reviewing lessons learned from the 
    establishment of the Cyber Center for Education and Innovation-Home 
    of the National Cryptologic Museum under section 7781(a) of title 
    10, United States Code.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to the congressional 
intelligence committees and the congressional defense committees (as 
defined in section 101 of title 10, United States Code) a report on the 
findings of the Director with respect to the study completed under 
subsection (a).

                       Subtitle B--Other Matters

SEC. 5721. WHISTLEBLOWER DISCLOSURES TO CONGRESS AND COMMITTEES OF 
CONGRESS.
    Section 2302 of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)(8)--
            (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``; or'' and inserting 
        a semicolon;
            (B) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking the semicolon at 
        the end and inserting ``; or''; and
            (C) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following new 
        subparagraph:
            ``(C) any disclosure to Congress (including any committee 
        of Congress) by any employee of an agency or applicant for 
        employment at an agency of information described in 
        subparagraph (B) that is--
                ``(i) not classified; or
                ``(ii) if classified--

                    ``(I) has been classified by the head of an agency 
                that is not an element of the intelligence community 
                (as defined by section 3 of the National Security Act 
                of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003)); and
                    ``(II) does not reveal intelligence sources and 
                methods.''; and

        (2) in subsection (c)(2)(C)(iii)(III), by inserting after 
    ``Congress'' the following: ``(including any committee of Congress 
    with respect to information that is not classified or, if 
    classified, has been classified by the head of an agency that is 
    not an element of the intelligence community and does not reveal 
    intelligence sources and methods)''.
SEC. 5722. TASK FORCE ON ILLICIT FINANCING OF ESPIONAGE AND FOREIGN 
INFLUENCE OPERATIONS.
    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
establish a task force to study and assess the illicit financing of 
espionage and foreign influence operations directed at the United 
States.
    (b) Membership.--The task force shall be composed of the following 
individuals (or designees of the individual):
        (1) The Director of the Central Intelligence Agency.
        (2) The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
        (3) The Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Intelligence 
    and Analysis.
        (4) The Assistant Secretary of State for Intelligence and 
    Research.
        (5) Such other heads of the elements of the intelligence 
    community that the Director of National Intelligence determines 
    appropriate.
    (c) Chairperson; Meetings.--
        (1) Chairperson.--The Director of National Intelligence shall 
    appoint a senior official within the Office of the Director of 
    National Intelligence to serve as the chairperson of the task 
    force.
        (2) Meetings.--The task force shall meet regularly but not less 
    frequently than on a quarterly basis.
    (d) Reports.--
        (1) Initial report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the task force shall submit to the 
    appropriate congressional committees a report on the illicit 
    financing of espionage and foreign influence operations directed at 
    the United States. The report shall address the following:
            (A) The extent of the collection by the intelligence 
        community, from all sources (including the governments of 
        foreign countries), of intelligence and information relating to 
        illicit financing of espionage and foreign influence operations 
        directed at the United States, and any gaps in such collection.
            (B) Any specific legal, regulatory, policy, or other 
        prohibitions, or financial, human, technical, or other resource 
        limitations or constraints, that have affected the ability of 
        the Director of National Intelligence or other heads of 
        relevant elements of the intelligence community in collecting 
        or analyzing intelligence or information relating to illicit 
        financing of espionage and foreign influence operations 
        directed at the United States.
            (C) The methods, as of the date of the report, by which 
        hostile governments of foreign countries or foreign 
        organizations, and any groups or persons acting on behalf of or 
        with the support of such governments or organizations, seek to 
        disguise or obscure relationships between such governments, 
        organizations, groups, or persons and United States persons, 
        for the purpose of conducting espionage or foreign influence 
        operations directed at the United States, including by 
        exploiting financial laws, systems, or instruments, of the 
        United States.
            (D) The existing practices of the intelligence community 
        for ensuring that intelligence and information relating to the 
        illicit financing of espionage and foreign influence operations 
        is analyzed and shared with other elements of the intelligence 
        community, and any recommendations for improving such analysis 
        and sharing.
        (2) Annual update.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, and each year thereafter through the date 
    specified in subsection (e), the task force shall submit to the 
    appropriate congressional committees an update on the report.
        (3) Form.--Each report submitted under this subsection may be 
    submitted in classified form, but if submitted in such form, shall 
    include an unclassified summary.
    (e) Termination.--The task force shall terminate on January 1, 
2025.
    (f) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
        (1) The congressional intelligence committees.
        (2) The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on 
    Financial Services of the House of Representatives.
        (3) The Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
    Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.
SEC. 5723. ESTABLISHMENT OF FIFTH-GENERATION TECHNOLOGY PRIZE 
COMPETITION.
    (a) Prize Competition.--Pursuant to section 24 of the Stevenson-
Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719), the Director 
of National Intelligence, acting through the Director of the 
Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Agency, shall carry out a 
program to award prizes competitively to stimulate research and 
development relevant to fifth-generation technology.
    (b) Prize Amount.--In carrying out the program under subsection 
(a), the Director may award not more than a total of $5,000,000 to one 
or more winners of the prize competition.
    (c) Consultation.--In carrying out the program under subsection 
(a), the Director may consult with the heads of relevant departments 
and agencies of the Federal Government.
    (d) Fifth-generation Technology Defined.--In this section, the term 
``fifth-generation technology'' means hardware, software, or other 
technologies relating to fifth-generation wireless networks (known as 
``5G'').
SEC. 5724. ESTABLISHMENT OF DEEPFAKES PRIZE COMPETITION.
    (a) Prize Competition.--Pursuant to section 24 of the Stevenson-
Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719), the Director 
of National Intelligence, acting through the Director of the 
Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Agency, shall carry out a 
program to award prizes competitively to stimulate the research, 
development, or commercialization of technologies to automatically 
detect machine-manipulated media.
    (b) Prize Amount.--In carrying out the program under subsection 
(a), the Director may award not more than a total of $5,000,000 to one 
or more winners of the prize competition.
    (c) Consultation.--In carrying out the program under subsection 
(a), the Director may consult with the heads of relevant departments 
and agencies of the Federal Government.
    (d) Machine-Manipulated Media Defined.--In this section, the term 
``machine-manipulated media'' means video, image, or audio recordings 
generated or substantially modified using machine-learning techniques 
in order to falsely depict events, to falsely depict the speech or 
conduct of an individual, or to depict individuals who do not exist.
SEC. 5725. IDENTIFICATION OF AND COUNTERMEASURES AGAINST CERTAIN 
INTERNATIONAL MOBILE SUBSCRIBER IDENTITY-CATCHERS.
    (a) In General.--The Director of National Intelligence and the 
Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, in collaboration with 
the Under Secretary of Homeland Security for Intelligence and Analysis, 
and the heads of such other Federal, State, or local agencies as the 
Directors determine appropriate, and in accordance with applicable law 
and policy, may--
        (1) undertake an effort to identify International Mobile 
    Subscriber Identity-catchers operated within the United States by--
            (A) hostile foreign governments; and
            (B) individuals who have violated a criminal law of the 
        United States or of any State, or who have committed acts that 
        would be a criminal violation if committed within the 
        jurisdiction of the United States or any State; and
        (2) when appropriate, develop countermeasures against such 
    International Mobile Subscriber Identity-catchers, with 
    prioritization given to such International Mobile Subscriber 
    Identity-catchers identified in the National Capital Region.
    (b) Briefing Required.--Prior to developing countermeasures under 
subsection (a)(2), the Director of National Intelligence and the 
Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall provide a 
briefing to the appropriate congressional committees on--
        (1) the use of International Mobile Subscriber Identity-
    catchers operated within the United States by the individuals and 
    governments described in subsection (a)(1);
        (2) potential countermeasures by the intelligence community 
    against such International Mobile Subscriber Identity-catchers; and
        (3) any legal or policy limitations with respect to the 
    development or carrying out of such countermeasures.
    (c) Definitions.--
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the congressional intelligence committees;
            (B) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
            (C) the Committees on the Judiciary of the House of 
        Representatives and the Senate.
        (2) International mobile subscriber identity-catcher.--The term 
    ``International Mobile Subscriber Identity-catcher'' means a device 
    used for intercepting mobile phone identifying information and 
    location data.
SEC. 5726. SECURING ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the congressional intelligence committees;
            (B) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
        Affairs and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of 
        the Senate; and
            (C) the Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives.
        (2) Covered entity.--The term ``covered entity'' means an 
    entity identified pursuant to section 9(a) of Executive Order No. 
    13636 of February 12, 2013 (78 Fed. Reg. 11742), relating to 
    identification of critical infrastructure where a cybersecurity 
    incident could reasonably result in catastrophic regional or 
    national effects on public health or safety, economic security, or 
    national security.
        (3) Exploit.--The term ``exploit'' means a software tool 
    designed to take advantage of a security vulnerability.
        (4) Industrial control system.--The term ``industrial control 
    system'' means an operational technology used to measure, control, 
    or manage industrial functions, and includes supervisory control 
    and data acquisition systems, distributed control systems, and 
    programmable logic or embedded controllers.
        (5) National laboratory.--The term ``National Laboratory'' has 
    the meaning given the term in section 2 of the Energy Policy Act of 
    2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801).
        (6) Program.--The term ``Program'' means the pilot program 
    established under subsection (b).
        (7) Secretary.--Except as otherwise specifically provided, the 
    term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Energy.
        (8) Security vulnerability.--The term ``security 
    vulnerability'' means any attribute of hardware, software, process, 
    or procedure that could enable or facilitate the defeat of a 
    security control.
    (b) Pilot Program for Securing Energy Infrastructure.--Not later 
than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall establish a 2-year control systems implementation pilot 
program within the National Laboratories for the purposes of--
        (1) partnering with covered entities in the energy sector 
    (including critical component manufacturers in the supply chain) 
    that voluntarily participate in the Program to identify new classes 
    of security vulnerabilities of the covered entities; and
        (2) evaluating technology and standards, in partnership with 
    covered entities, to isolate and defend industrial control systems 
    of covered entities from security vulnerabilities and exploits in 
    the most critical systems of the covered entities, including--
            (A) analog and nondigital control systems;
            (B) purpose-built control systems; and
            (C) physical controls.
    (c) Working Group To Evaluate Program Standards and Develop 
Strategy.--
        (1) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a working 
    group--
            (A) to evaluate the technology and standards used in the 
        Program under subsection (b)(2); and
            (B) to develop a national cyber-informed engineering 
        strategy to isolate and defend covered entities from security 
        vulnerabilities and exploits in the most critical systems of 
        the covered entities.
        (2) Membership.--The working group established under paragraph 
    (1) shall be composed of not fewer than 10 members, to be appointed 
    by the Secretary, at least 1 member of which shall represent each 
    of the following:
            (A) The Department of Energy.
            (B) The energy industry, including electric utilities and 
        manufacturers recommended by the Energy Sector coordinating 
        councils.
            (C)(i) The Department of Homeland Security; or
            (ii) the Industrial Control Systems Cyber Emergency 
        Response Team.
            (D) The North American Electric Reliability Corporation.
            (E) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
            (F)(i) The Office of the Director of National Intelligence; 
        or
            (ii) the intelligence community (as defined in section 3 of 
        the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003)).
            (G)(i) The Department of Defense; or
            (ii) the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Homeland 
        Security and America's Security Affairs.
            (H) A State or regional energy agency.
            (I) A national research body or academic institution.
            (J) The National Laboratories.
    (d) Reports on the Program.--
        (1) Interim report.--Not later than 180 days after the date on 
    which funds are first disbursed under the Program, the Secretary 
    shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees an interim 
    report that--
            (A) describes the results of the Program;
            (B) includes an analysis of the feasibility of each method 
        studied under the Program; and
            (C) describes the results of the evaluations conducted by 
        the working group established under subsection (c)(1).
        (2) Final report.--Not later than 2 years after the date on 
    which funds are first disbursed under the Program, the Secretary 
    shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a final 
    report that--
            (A) describes the results of the Program;
            (B) includes an analysis of the feasibility of each method 
        studied under the Program; and
            (C) describes the results of the evaluations conducted by 
        the working group established under subsection (c)(1).
    (e) Exemption From Disclosure.--Information shared by or with the 
Federal Government or a State, Tribal, or local government under this 
section--
        (1) shall be deemed to be voluntarily shared information;
        (2) shall be exempt from disclosure under section 552 of title 
    5, United States Code, or any provision of any State, Tribal, or 
    local freedom of information law, open government law, open 
    meetings law, open records law, sunshine law, or similar law 
    requiring the disclosure of information or records; and
        (3) shall be withheld from the public, without discretion, 
    under section 552(b)(3) of title 5, United States Code, and any 
    provision of any State, Tribal, or local law requiring the 
    disclosure of information or records.
    (f) Protection From Liability.--
        (1) In general.--A cause of action against a covered entity for 
    engaging in the voluntary activities authorized under subsection 
    (b)--
            (A) shall not lie or be maintained in any court; and
            (B) shall be promptly dismissed by the applicable court.
        (2) Voluntary activities.--Nothing in this section subjects any 
    covered entity to liability for not engaging in the voluntary 
    activities authorized under subsection (b).
    (g) No New Regulatory Authority for Federal Agencies.--Nothing in 
this section authorizes the Secretary or the head of any other 
department or agency of the Federal Government to issue new 
regulations.
    (h) Authorization of Appropriations.--
        (1) Pilot program.--There is authorized to be appropriated 
    $10,000,000 to carry out subsection (b).
        (2) Working group and report.--There is authorized to be 
    appropriated $1,500,000 to carry out subsections (c) and (d).
        (3) Availability.--Amounts made available under paragraphs (1) 
    and (2) shall remain available until expended.

 SUBDIVISION 2--INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATIONS FOR FISCAL YEARS 2018 AND 
                                  2019

SEC. 6100. TABLE OF CONTENTS.
    The table of contents for this subdivision is as follows:

Sec. 6100. Table of contents.

                   TITLE LXI--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 6101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 6102. Intelligence Community Management Account.

TITLE LXII--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

Sec. 6201. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 6202. Computation of annuities for employees of the Central 
          Intelligence Agency.

           TITLE LXIII--GENERAL INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MATTERS

Sec. 6301. Restriction on conduct of intelligence activities.
Sec. 6302. Increase in employee compensation and benefits authorized by 
          law.
Sec. 6303. Modification of special pay authority for science, 
          technology, engineering, or mathematics positions and addition 
          of special pay authority for cyber positions.
Sec. 6304. Modification of appointment of Chief Information Officer of 
          the Intelligence Community.
Sec. 6305. Director of National Intelligence review of placement of 
          positions within the intelligence community on the Executive 
          Schedule.
Sec. 6306. Supply Chain and Counterintelligence Risk Management Task 
          Force.
Sec. 6307. Consideration of adversarial telecommunications and 
          cybersecurity infrastructure when sharing intelligence with 
          foreign governments and entities.
Sec. 6308. Cyber protection support for the personnel of the 
          intelligence community in positions highly vulnerable to cyber 
          attack.
Sec. 6309. Elimination of sunset of authority relating to management of 
          supply-chain risk.
Sec. 6310. Limitations on determinations regarding certain security 
          classifications.
Sec. 6311. Joint Intelligence Community Council.
Sec. 6312. Intelligence community information technology environment.
Sec. 6313. Report on development of secure mobile voice solution for 
          intelligence community.
Sec. 6314. Policy on minimum insider threat standards.
Sec. 6315. Submission of intelligence community policies.
Sec. 6316. Expansion of intelligence community recruitment efforts.

 TITLE LXIV--MATTERS RELATING TO ELEMENTS OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY

       Subtitle A--Office of the Director of National Intelligence

Sec. 6401. Authority for protection of current and former employees of 
          the Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
Sec. 6402. Designation of the program manager-information-sharing 
          environment.
Sec. 6403. Technical modification to the executive schedule.
Sec. 6404. Chief Financial Officer of the Intelligence Community.
Sec. 6405. Chief Information Officer of the Intelligence Community.

                 Subtitle B--Central Intelligence Agency

Sec. 6411. Central Intelligence Agency subsistence for personnel 
          assigned to austere locations.
Sec. 6412. Special rules for certain monthly workers' compensation 
          payments and other payments for Central Intelligence Agency 
          personnel.
Sec. 6413. Expansion of security protective service jurisdiction of the 
          Central Intelligence Agency.
Sec. 6414. Repeal of foreign language proficiency requirement for 
          certain senior level positions in the Central Intelligence 
          Agency.

Subtitle C--Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence of Department 
                                of Energy

Sec. 6421. Consolidation of Department of Energy Offices of Intelligence 
          and Counterintelligence.
Sec. 6422. Repeal of Department of Energy Intelligence Executive 
          Committee and budget reporting requirement.

                       Subtitle D--Other Elements

Sec. 6431. Plan for designation of counterintelligence component of 
          Defense Security Service as an element of intelligence 
          community.
Sec. 6432. Notice not required for private entities.
Sec. 6433. Establishment of advisory board for National Reconnaissance 
          Office.
Sec. 6434. Collocation of certain Department of Homeland Security 
          personnel at field locations.

                       TITLE LXV--ELECTION MATTERS

Sec. 6501. Report on cyber attacks by foreign governments against United 
          States election infrastructure.
Sec. 6502. Review of intelligence community's posture to collect against 
          and analyze Russian efforts to influence the Presidential 
          election.
Sec. 6503. Assessment of foreign intelligence threats to Federal 
          elections.
Sec. 6504. Strategy for countering Russian cyber threats to United 
          States elections.
Sec. 6505. Assessment of significant Russian influence campaigns 
          directed at foreign elections and referenda.
Sec. 6506. Information sharing with State election officials.
Sec. 6507. Notification of significant foreign cyber intrusions and 
          active measures campaigns directed at elections for Federal 
          offices.
Sec. 6508. Designation of counterintelligence officer to lead election 
          security matters.

                     TITLE LXVI--SECURITY CLEARANCES

Sec. 6601. Definitions.
Sec. 6602. Reports and plans relating to security clearances and 
          background investigations.
Sec. 6603. Improving the process for security clearances.
Sec. 6604. Goals for promptness of determinations regarding security 
          clearances.
Sec. 6605. Security Executive Agent.
Sec. 6606. Report on unified, simplified, Governmentwide standards for 
          positions of trust and security clearances.
Sec. 6607. Report on clearance in person concept.
Sec. 6608. Reports on reciprocity for security clearances inside of 
          departments and agencies.
Sec. 6609. Intelligence community reports on security clearances.
Sec. 6610. Periodic report on positions in the intelligence community 
          that can be conducted without access to classified 
          information, networks, or facilities.
Sec. 6611. Information-sharing program for positions of trust and 
          security clearances.
Sec. 6612. Report on protections for confidentiality of whistleblower-
          related communications.
Sec. 6613. Reports on costs of security clearance background 
          investigations.

                 TITLE LXVII--REPORTS AND OTHER MATTERS

     Subtitle A--Matters Relating to Russia and Other Foreign Powers

Sec. 6701. Limitation relating to establishment or support of 
          cybersecurity unit with the Russian Federation.
Sec. 6702. Assessment of threat finance relating to Russia.
Sec. 6703. Notification of an active measures campaign.
Sec. 6704. Notification of travel by accredited diplomatic and consular 
          personnel of the Russian Federation in the United States.
Sec. 6705. Report and annual briefing on Iranian expenditures supporting 
          foreign military and terrorist activities.
Sec. 6706. Expansion of scope of committee to counter active measures.

                           Subtitle B--Reports

Sec. 6711. Technical correction to Inspector General study.
Sec. 6712. Reports on authorities of the Chief Intelligence Officer of 
          the Department of Homeland Security.
Sec. 6713. Review of intelligence community whistleblower matters.
Sec. 6714. Report on role of Director of National Intelligence with 
          respect to certain foreign investments.
Sec. 6715. Report on surveillance by foreign governments against United 
          States telecommunications networks.
Sec. 6716. Biennial report on foreign investment risks.
Sec. 6717. Modification of certain reporting requirement on travel of 
          foreign diplomats.
Sec. 6718. Semiannual reports on investigations of unauthorized 
          disclosures of classified information.
Sec. 6719. Congressional notification of designation of covered 
          intelligence officer as persona non grata.
Sec. 6720. Reports on intelligence community participation in 
          vulnerabilities equities process of Federal Government.
Sec. 6721. Inspectors General reports on classification.
Sec. 6722. Reports and briefings on national security effects of global 
          water insecurity and emerging infectious disease and 
          pandemics.
Sec. 6723. Annual report on memoranda of understanding between elements 
          of intelligence community and other entities of the United 
          States Government regarding significant operational activities 
          or policy.
Sec. 6724. Study on the feasibility of encrypting unclassified wireline 
          and wireless telephone calls.
Sec. 6725. Reports on intelligence community loan repayment and related 
          programs.
Sec. 6726. Repeal of certain reporting requirements.
Sec. 6727. Inspector General of the Intelligence Community report on 
          senior executives of the Office of the Director of National 
          Intelligence.
Sec. 6728. Briefing on Federal Bureau of Investigation offering 
          permanent residence to sources and cooperators.
Sec. 6729. Intelligence assessment of North Korea revenue sources.
Sec. 6730. Report on possible exploitation of virtual currencies by 
          terrorist actors.

                        Subtitle C--Other Matters

Sec. 6741. Public Interest Declassification Board.
Sec. 6742. Technical and clerical amendments to the National Security 
          Act of 1947.
Sec. 6743. Bug bounty programs.
Sec. 6744. Technical amendments related to the Department of Energy.
Sec. 6745. Sense of Congress on notification of certain disclosures of 
          classified information.
Sec. 6746. Sense of Congress on consideration of espionage activities 
          when considering whether or not to provide visas to foreign 
          individuals to be accredited to a United Nations mission in 
          the United States.
Sec. 6747. Sense of Congress on WikiLeaks.

                   TITLE LXI--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

SEC. 6101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    (a) Fiscal Year 2019.--Funds that were appropriated for fiscal year 
2019 for the conduct of the intelligence and intelligence-related 
activities of the following elements of the United States Government 
are hereby authorized:
        (1) The Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
        (2) The Central Intelligence Agency.
        (3) The Department of Defense.
        (4) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
        (5) The National Security Agency.
        (6) The Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, and 
    the Department of the Air Force.
        (7) The Coast Guard.
        (8) The Department of State.
        (9) The Department of the Treasury.
        (10) The Department of Energy.
        (11) The Department of Justice.
        (12) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
        (13) The Drug Enforcement Administration.
        (14) The National Reconnaissance Office.
        (15) The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.
        (16) The Department of Homeland Security.
    (b) Fiscal Year 2018.--Funds that were appropriated for fiscal year 
2018 for the conduct of the intelligence and intelligence-related 
activities of the elements of the United States set forth in subsection 
(a) are hereby authorized.
SEC. 6102. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT ACCOUNT.
    The amounts that were appropriated for the Intelligence Community 
Management Account of the Director of National Intelligence for fiscal 
years 2018 and 2019 are hereby authorized.

   TITLE LXII--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY 
                                 SYSTEM

SEC. 6201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    The amounts that were appropriated for the Central Intelligence 
Agency Retirement and Disability Fund for fiscal years 2018 and 2019 
are hereby authorized.
SEC. 6202. COMPUTATION OF ANNUITIES FOR EMPLOYEES OF THE CENTRAL 
INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.
    (a) Computation of Annuities.--
        (1) In general.--Section 221 of the Central Intelligence Agency 
    Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2031) is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a)(3)(B), by striking the period at the 
        end and inserting ``, as determined by using the annual rate of 
        basic pay that would be payable for full-time service in that 
        position.'';
            (B) in subsection (b)(1)(C)(i), by striking ``12-month'' 
        and inserting ``2-year'';
            (C) in subsection (f)(2), by striking ``one year'' and 
        inserting ``two years'';
            (D) in subsection (g)(2), by striking ``one year'' each 
        place such term appears and inserting ``two years'';
            (E) by redesignating subsections (h), (i), (j), (k), and 
        (l) as subsections (i), (j), (k), (l), and (m), respectively; 
        and
            (F) by inserting after subsection (g) the following:
    ``(h) Conditional Election of Insurable Interest Survivor Annuity 
by Participants Married at the Time of Retirement.--
        ``(1)  Authority to make designation.--Subject to the rights of 
    former spouses under subsection (b) and section 222, at the time of 
    retirement a married participant found by the Director to be in 
    good health may elect to receive an annuity reduced in accordance 
    with subsection (f)(1)(B) and designate in writing an individual 
    having an insurable interest in the participant to receive an 
    annuity under the system after the participant's death, except that 
    any such election to provide an insurable interest survivor annuity 
    to the participant's spouse shall only be effective if the 
    participant's spouse waives the spousal right to a survivor annuity 
    under this Act. The amount of the annuity shall be equal to 55 
    percent of the participant's reduced annuity.
        ``(2) Reduction in participant's annuity.--The annuity payable 
    to the participant making such election shall be reduced by 10 
    percent of an annuity computed under subsection (a) and by an 
    additional 5 percent for each full 5 years the designated 
    individual is younger than the participant. The total reduction 
    under this subparagraph may not exceed 40 percent.
        ``(3) Commencement of survivor annuity.--The annuity payable to 
    the designated individual shall begin on the day after the retired 
    participant dies and terminate on the last day of the month before 
    the designated individual dies.
        ``(4) Recomputation of participant's annuity on death of 
    designated individual.--An annuity that is reduced under this 
    subsection shall, effective the first day of the month following 
    the death of the designated individual, be recomputed and paid as 
    if the annuity had not been so reduced.''.
        (2) Conforming amendments.--
            (A) Central intelligence agency retirement act.--The 
        Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2001 et 
        seq.) is amended--
                (i) in section 232(b)(1) (50 U.S.C. 2052(b)(1)), by 
            striking ``221(h),'' and inserting ``221(i),''; and
                (ii) in section 252(h)(4) (50 U.S.C. 2082(h)(4)), by 
            striking ``221(k)'' and inserting ``221(l)''.
            (B) Central intelligence agency act of 1949.--Subsection 
        (a) of section 14 of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 
        1949 (50 U.S.C. 3514(a)) is amended by striking ``221(h)(2), 
        221(i), 221(l),'' and inserting ``221(i)(2), 221(j), 221(m),''.
    (b) Annuities for Former Spouses.--Subparagraph (B) of section 
222(b)(5) of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 
2032(b)(5)(B)) is amended by striking ``one year'' and inserting ``two 
years''.
    (c) Prior Service Credit.--Subparagraph (A) of section 252(b)(3) of 
the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 
2082(b)(3)(A)) is amended by striking ``October 1, 1990'' both places 
that term appears and inserting ``March 31, 1991''.
    (d) Reemployment Compensation.--Section 273 of the Central 
Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2113) is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections (c) 
    and (d), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
    ``(b) Part-Time Reemployed Annuitants.--The Director shall have the 
authority to reemploy an annuitant on a part-time basis in accordance 
with section 8344(l) of title 5, United States Code.''.
    (e) Effective Date and Application.--The amendments made by 
subsection (a)(1)(A) and subsection (c) shall take effect as if enacted 
on October 28, 2009, and shall apply to computations or participants, 
respectively, as of such date.

          TITLE LXIII--GENERAL INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MATTERS

SEC. 6301. RESTRICTION ON CONDUCT OF INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
    The authorization of appropriations by this subdivision shall not 
be deemed to constitute authority for the conduct of any intelligence 
activity which is not otherwise authorized by the Constitution or the 
laws of the United States.
SEC. 6302. INCREASE IN EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS AUTHORIZED BY 
LAW.
    Appropriations authorized by this subdivision for salary, pay, 
retirement, and other benefits for Federal employees may be increased 
by such additional or supplemental amounts as may be necessary for 
increases in such compensation or benefits authorized by law.
SEC. 6303. MODIFICATION OF SPECIAL PAY AUTHORITY FOR SCIENCE, 
TECHNOLOGY, ENGINEERING, OR MATHEMATICS POSITIONS AND ADDITION OF 
SPECIAL PAY AUTHORITY FOR CYBER POSITIONS.
    Section 113B of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3049a) 
is amended--
        (1) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
    ``(a) Special Rates of Pay for Positions Requiring Expertise in 
Science, Technology, Engineering, or Mathematics.--
        ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding part III of title 5, United 
    States Code, the head of each element of the intelligence community 
    may, for one or more categories of positions in such element that 
    require expertise in science, technology, engineering, or 
    mathematics--
            ``(A) establish higher minimum rates of pay; and
            ``(B) make corresponding increases in all rates of pay of 
        the pay range for each grade or level, subject to subsection 
        (b) or (c), as applicable.
        ``(2) Treatment.--The special rate supplements resulting from 
    the establishment of higher rates under paragraph (1) shall be 
    basic pay for the same or similar purposes as those specified in 
    section 5305(j) of title 5, United States Code.'';
        (2) by redesignating subsections (b) through (f) as subsections 
    (c) through (g), respectively;
        (3) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
    ``(b) Special Rates of Pay for Cyber Positions.--
        ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding subsection (c), the Director 
    of the National Security Agency may establish a special rate of 
    pay--
            ``(A) not to exceed the rate of basic pay payable for level 
        II of the Executive Schedule under section 5313 of title 5, 
        United States Code, if the Director certifies to the Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Intelligence, in consultation with the 
        Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, that 
        the rate of pay is for positions that perform functions that 
        execute the cyber mission of the Agency; or
            ``(B) not to exceed the rate of basic pay payable for the 
        Vice President of the United States under section 104 of title 
        3, United States Code, if the Director certifies to the 
        Secretary of Defense, by name, individuals that have advanced 
        skills and competencies and that perform critical functions 
        that execute the cyber mission of the Agency.
        ``(2) Pay limitation.--Employees receiving a special rate under 
    paragraph (1) shall be subject to an aggregate pay limitation that 
    parallels the limitation established in section 5307 of title 5, 
    United States Code, except that--
            ``(A) any allowance, differential, bonus, award, or other 
        similar cash payment in addition to basic pay that is 
        authorized under title 10, United States Code, (or any other 
        applicable law in addition to title 5 of such Code, excluding 
        the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.)) 
        shall also be counted as part of aggregate compensation; and
            ``(B) aggregate compensation may not exceed the rate 
        established for the Vice President of the United States under 
        section 104 of title 3, United States Code.
        ``(3) Limitation on number of recipients.--The number of 
    individuals who receive basic pay established under paragraph 
    (1)(B) may not exceed 100 at any time.
        ``(4) Limitation on use as comparative reference.--
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, special rates of pay 
    and the limitation established under paragraph (1)(B) may not be 
    used as comparative references for the purpose of fixing the rates 
    of basic pay or maximum pay limitations of qualified positions 
    under section 1599f of title 10, United States Code, or section 226 
    of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 147).'';
        (4) in subsection (c), as redesignated by paragraph (2), by 
    striking ``A minimum'' and inserting ``Except as provided in 
    subsection (b), a minimum'';
        (5) in subsection (d), as redesignated by paragraph (2), by 
    inserting ``or (b)'' after ``by subsection (a)''; and
        (6) in subsection (g), as redesignated by paragraph (2)--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Not later than 90 days 
        after the date of the enactment of the Intelligence 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017'' and inserting ``Not 
        later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of the Damon 
        Paul Nelson and Matthew Young Pollard Intelligence 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2)(A), by inserting ``or (b)'' after 
        ``subsection (a)''.
SEC. 6304. MODIFICATION OF APPOINTMENT OF CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER OF 
THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
    Section 103G(a) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3032(a)) is amended by striking ``President'' and inserting 
``Director''.
SEC. 6305. DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE REVIEW OF PLACEMENT OF 
POSITIONS WITHIN THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY ON THE EXECUTIVE SCHEDULE.
    (a) Review.--The Director of National Intelligence, in coordination 
with the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, shall conduct 
a review of positions within the intelligence community regarding the 
placement of such positions on the Executive Schedule under subchapter 
II of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code. In carrying out such 
review, the Director of National Intelligence, in coordination with the 
Director of the Office of Personnel Management, shall determine--
        (1) the standards under which such review will be conducted;
        (2) which positions should or should not be on the Executive 
    Schedule; and
        (3) for those positions that should be on the Executive 
    Schedule, the level of the Executive Schedule at which such 
    positions should be placed.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 60 days after the date on which the 
review under subsection (a) is completed, the Director of National 
Intelligence shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees, 
the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
Senate, and the Committee on Oversight and Reform of the House of 
Representatives an unredacted report describing the standards by which 
the review was conducted and the outcome of the review.
SEC. 6306. SUPPLY CHAIN AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE RISK MANAGEMENT TASK 
FORCE.
    (a) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
        (1) The congressional intelligence committees.
        (2) The Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
        (3) The Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Homeland 
    Security, and the Committee on Oversight and Reform of the House of 
    Representatives.
    (b) Requirement to Establish.--The Director of National 
Intelligence shall establish a Supply Chain and Counterintelligence 
Risk Management Task Force to standardize information sharing between 
the intelligence community and the acquisition community of the United 
States Government with respect to the supply chain and 
counterintelligence risks.
    (c) Members.--The Supply Chain and Counterintelligence Risk 
Management Task Force established under subsection (b) shall be 
composed of--
        (1) a representative of the Defense Security Service of the 
    Department of Defense;
        (2) a representative of the General Services Administration;
        (3) a representative of the Office of Federal Procurement 
    Policy of the Office of Management and Budget;
        (4) a representative of the Department of Homeland Security;
        (5) a representative of the Federal Bureau of Investigation;
        (6) the Director of the National Counterintelligence and 
    Security Center; and
        (7) any other members the Director of National Intelligence 
    determines appropriate.
    (d) Security Clearances.--Each member of the Supply Chain and 
Counterintelligence Risk Management Task Force established under 
subsection (b) shall have a security clearance at the top secret level 
and be able to access sensitive compartmented information.
    (e) Annual Report.--The Supply Chain and Counterintelligence Risk 
Management Task Force established under subsection (b) shall submit to 
the appropriate congressional committees an annual report that 
describes the activities of the Task Force during the previous year, 
including identification of the supply chain, cybersecurity, and 
counterintelligence risks shared with the acquisition community of the 
United States Government by the intelligence community.
SEC. 6307. CONSIDERATION OF ADVERSARIAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND 
CYBERSECURITY INFRASTRUCTURE WHEN SHARING INTELLIGENCE WITH FOREIGN 
GOVERNMENTS AND ENTITIES.
    Whenever the head of an element of the intelligence community 
enters into an intelligence-sharing agreement with a foreign government 
or any other foreign entity, the head of the element shall consider the 
pervasiveness of telecommunications and cybersecurity infrastructure, 
equipment, and services provided by adversaries of the United States, 
particularly China and Russia, or entities of such adversaries in the 
country or region of the foreign government or other foreign entity 
entering into the agreement.
SEC. 6308. CYBER PROTECTION SUPPORT FOR THE PERSONNEL OF THE 
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY IN POSITIONS HIGHLY VULNERABLE TO CYBER ATTACK.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Personal accounts.--The term ``personal accounts'' means 
    accounts for online and telecommunications services, including 
    telephone, residential internet access, email, text and multimedia 
    messaging, cloud computing, social media, health care, and 
    financial services, used by personnel of the intelligence community 
    outside of the scope of their employment with elements of the 
    intelligence community.
        (2) Personal technology devices.--The term ``personal 
    technology devices'' means technology devices used by personnel of 
    the intelligence community outside of the scope of their employment 
    with elements of the intelligence community, including networks to 
    which such devices connect.
    (b) Authority To Provide Cyber Protection Support.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to a determination by the Director of 
    National Intelligence, the Director may provide cyber protection 
    support for the personal technology devices and personal accounts 
    of the personnel described in paragraph (2).
        (2) At-risk personnel.--The personnel described in this 
    paragraph are personnel of the intelligence community--
            (A) who the Director determines to be highly vulnerable to 
        cyber attacks and hostile information collection activities 
        because of the positions occupied by such personnel in the 
        intelligence community; and
            (B) whose personal technology devices or personal accounts 
        are highly vulnerable to cyber attacks and hostile information 
        collection activities.
    (c) Nature of Cyber Protection Support.--Subject to the 
availability of resources, the cyber protection support provided to 
personnel under subsection (b) may include training, advice, 
assistance, and other services relating to cyber attacks and hostile 
information collection activities.
    (d) Limitation on Support.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed--
        (1) to encourage personnel of the intelligence community to use 
    personal technology devices for official business; or
        (2) to authorize cyber protection support for senior 
    intelligence community personnel using personal devices, networks, 
    and personal accounts in an official capacity.
    (e) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to the congressional 
intelligence committees a report on the provision of cyber protection 
support under subsection (b). The report shall include--
        (1) a description of the methodology used to make the 
    determination under subsection (b)(2); and
        (2) guidance for the use of cyber protection support and 
    tracking of support requests for personnel receiving cyber 
    protection support under subsection (b).
SEC. 6309. ELIMINATION OF SUNSET OF AUTHORITY RELATING TO MANAGEMENT OF 
SUPPLY-CHAIN RISK.
    Section 309 of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2012 (Public Law 112-87; 50 U.S.C. 3329 note) is amended by striking 
subsection (g).
SEC. 6310. LIMITATIONS ON DETERMINATIONS REGARDING CERTAIN SECURITY 
CLASSIFICATIONS.
    (a) Prohibition.--An officer of an element of the intelligence 
community who has been nominated by the President for a position that 
requires the advice and consent of the Senate may not make a 
classification decision with respect to information related to such 
officer's nomination.
    (b) Classification Determinations.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), in a case 
    in which an officer described in subsection (a) has been nominated 
    as described in such subsection and classification authority rests 
    with the officer or another officer who reports directly to such 
    officer, a classification decision with respect to information 
    relating to the officer shall be made by the Director of National 
    Intelligence.
        (2) Nominations of director of national intelligence.--In a 
    case described in paragraph (1) in which the officer nominated is 
    the Director of National Intelligence, the classification decision 
    shall be made by the Principal Deputy Director of National 
    Intelligence.
    (c) Reports.--Whenever the Director or the Principal Deputy 
Director makes a decision under subsection (b), the Director or the 
Principal Deputy Director, as the case may be, shall submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees a report detailing the reasons 
for the decision.
SEC. 6311. JOINT INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY COUNCIL.
    (a) Meetings.--Section 101A(d) of the National Security Act of 1947 
(50 U.S.C. 3022(d)) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``regular''; and
        (2) by inserting ``as the Director considers appropriate'' 
    after ``Council''.
    (b) Report on Function and Utility of the Joint Intelligence 
Community Council.--
        (1) In general.--No later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
    coordination with the Executive Office of the President and members 
    of the Joint Intelligence Community Council, shall submit to the 
    congressional intelligence committees a report on the function and 
    utility of the Joint Intelligence Community Council.
        (2) Contents.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) The number of physical or virtual meetings held by the 
        Council per year since the Council's inception.
            (B) A description of the effect and accomplishments of the 
        Council.
            (C) An explanation of the unique role of the Council 
        relative to other entities, including with respect to the 
        National Security Council and the Executive Committee of the 
        intelligence community.
            (D) Recommendations for the future role and operation of 
        the Council.
            (E) Such other matters relating to the function and utility 
        of the Council as the Director considers appropriate.
        (3) Form.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 6312. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ENVIRONMENT.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Core service.--The term ``core service'' means a capability 
    that is available to multiple elements of the intelligence 
    community and required for consistent operation of the intelligence 
    community information technology environment.
        (2) Intelligence community information technology 
    environment.--The term ``intelligence community information 
    technology environment'' means all of the information technology 
    services across the intelligence community, including the data 
    sharing and protection environment across multiple classification 
    domains.
    (b) Roles and Responsibilities.--
        (1) Director of national intelligence.--The Director of 
    National Intelligence shall be responsible for coordinating the 
    performance by elements of the intelligence community of the 
    intelligence community information technology environment, 
    including each of the following:
            (A) Ensuring compliance with all applicable environment 
        rules and regulations of such environment.
            (B) Ensuring measurable performance goals exist for such 
        environment.
            (C) Documenting standards and practices of such 
        environment.
            (D) Acting as an arbiter among elements of the intelligence 
        community related to any disagreements arising out of the 
        implementation of such environment.
            (E) Delegating responsibilities to the elements of the 
        intelligence community and carrying out such other 
        responsibilities as are necessary for the effective 
        implementation of such environment.
        (2) Core service providers.--Providers of core services shall 
    be responsible for--
            (A) providing core services, in coordination with the 
        Director of National Intelligence; and
            (B) providing the Director with information requested and 
        required to fulfill the responsibilities of the Director under 
        paragraph (1).
        (3) Use of core services.--
            (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B), 
        each element of the intelligence community shall use core 
        services when such services are available.
            (B) Exception.--The Director of National Intelligence may 
        provide for a written exception to the requirement under 
        subparagraph (A) if the Director determines there is a 
        compelling financial or mission need for such exception.
    (c) Management Accountability.--Not later than 90 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National 
Intelligence shall designate and maintain one or more accountable 
executives of the intelligence community information technology 
environment to be responsible for--
        (1) management, financial control, and integration of such 
    environment;
        (2) overseeing the performance of each core service, including 
    establishing measurable service requirements and schedules;
        (3) to the degree feasible, ensuring testing of each core 
    service of such environment, including testing by the intended 
    users, to evaluate performance against measurable service 
    requirements and to ensure the capability meets user requirements; 
    and
        (4) coordinate transition or restructuring efforts of such 
    environment, including phaseout of legacy systems.
    (d) Security Plan.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
develop and maintain a security plan for the intelligence community 
information technology environment.
    (e) Long-Term Roadmap.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, and during each of the second and fourth 
fiscal quarters thereafter, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to the congressional intelligence committees a long-term roadmap 
that shall include each of the following:
        (1) A description of the minimum required and desired core 
    service requirements, including--
            (A) key performance parameters; and
            (B) an assessment of current, measured performance.
        (2) Implementation milestones for the intelligence community 
    information technology environment, including each of the 
    following:
            (A) A schedule for expected deliveries of core service 
        capabilities during each of the following phases:
                (i) Concept refinement and technology maturity 
            demonstration.
                (ii) Development, integration, and demonstration.
                (iii) Production, deployment, and sustainment.
                (iv) System retirement.
            (B) Dependencies of such core service capabilities.
            (C) Plans for the transition or restructuring necessary to 
        incorporate core service capabilities.
            (D) A description of any legacy systems and discontinued 
        capabilities to be phased out.
        (3) Such other matters as the Director determines appropriate.
    (f) Business Plan.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and during each of the second and fourth fiscal 
quarters thereafter, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit 
to the congressional intelligence committees a business plan that 
includes each of the following:
        (1) A systematic approach to identify core service funding 
    requests for the intelligence community information technology 
    environment within the proposed budget, including multiyear plans 
    to implement the long-term roadmap required by subsection (e).
        (2) A uniform approach by which each element of the 
    intelligence community shall identify the cost of legacy 
    information technology or alternative capabilities where services 
    of the intelligence community information technology environment 
    will also be available.
        (3) A uniform effort by which each element of the intelligence 
    community shall identify transition and restructuring costs for 
    new, existing, and retiring services of the intelligence community 
    information technology environment, as well as services of such 
    environment that have changed designations as a core service.
    (g) Quarterly Presentations.--Beginning not later than 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National 
Intelligence shall provide to the congressional intelligence committees 
quarterly updates regarding ongoing implementation of the intelligence 
community information technology environment as compared to the 
requirements in the most recently submitted security plan required by 
subsection (d), long-term roadmap required by subsection (e), and 
business plan required by subsection (f).
    (h) Additional Notifications.--The Director of National 
Intelligence shall provide timely notification to the congressional 
intelligence committees regarding any policy changes related to or 
affecting the intelligence community information technology 
environment, new initiatives or strategies related to or impacting such 
environment, and changes or deficiencies in the execution of the 
security plan required by subsection (d), long-term roadmap required by 
subsection (e), and business plan required by subsection (f).
    (i) Sunset.--The section shall have no effect on or after September 
30, 2024.
SEC. 6313. REPORT ON DEVELOPMENT OF SECURE MOBILE VOICE SOLUTION FOR 
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
coordination with the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency and 
the Director of the National Security Agency, shall submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees a classified report on the 
feasibility, desirability, cost, and required schedule associated with 
the implementation of a secure mobile voice solution for the 
intelligence community.
    (b) Contents.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include, 
at a minimum, the following:
        (1) The benefits and disadvantages of a secure mobile voice 
    solution.
        (2) Whether the intelligence community could leverage 
    commercially available technology for classified voice 
    communications that operates on commercial mobile networks in a 
    secure manner and identifying the accompanying security risks to 
    such networks.
        (3) A description of any policies or community guidance that 
    would be necessary to govern the potential solution, such as a 
    process for determining the appropriate use of a secure mobile 
    telephone and any limitations associated with such use.
SEC. 6314. POLICY ON MINIMUM INSIDER THREAT STANDARDS.
    (a) Policy Required.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
establish a policy for minimum insider threat standards that is 
consistent with the National Insider Threat Policy and Minimum 
Standards for Executive Branch Insider Threat Programs.
    (b) Implementation.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the head of each element of the intelligence 
community shall implement the policy established under subsection (a).
SEC. 6315. SUBMISSION OF INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY POLICIES.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Electronic repository.--The term ``electronic repository'' 
    means the electronic distribution mechanism, in use as of the date 
    of the enactment of this Act, or any successor electronic 
    distribution mechanism, by which the Director of National 
    Intelligence submits to the congressional intelligence committees 
    information.
        (2) Policy.--The term ``policy'', with respect to the 
    intelligence community, includes unclassified or classified--
            (A) directives, policy guidance, and policy memoranda of 
        the intelligence community;
            (B) executive correspondence of the Director of National 
        Intelligence; and
            (C) any equivalent successor policy instruments.
    (b) Submission of Policies.--
        (1) Current policy.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence 
    shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees using the 
    electronic repository all nonpublicly available policies issued by 
    the Director of National Intelligence for the intelligence 
    community that are in effect as of the date of the submission.
        (2) Continuous updates.--Not later than 15 days after the date 
    on which the Director of National Intelligence issues, modifies, or 
    rescinds a policy of the intelligence community, the Director 
    shall--
            (A) notify the congressional intelligence committees of 
        such addition, modification, or removal; and
            (B) update the electronic repository with respect to such 
        addition, modification, or removal.
SEC. 6316. EXPANSION OF INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY RECRUITMENT EFFORTS.
    In order to further increase the diversity of the intelligence 
community workforce, not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
consultation with heads of elements of the Intelligence Community, 
shall create, implement, and submit to the congressional intelligence 
committees a written plan to ensure that rural and underrepresented 
regions are more fully and consistently represented in such elements' 
employment recruitment efforts. Upon receipt of the plan, the 
congressional committees shall have 60 days to submit comments to the 
Director of National Intelligence before such plan shall be 
implemented.

 TITLE LXIV--MATTERS RELATING TO ELEMENTS OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
      Subtitle A--Office of the Director of National Intelligence

SEC. 6401. AUTHORITY FOR PROTECTION OF CURRENT AND FORMER EMPLOYEES OF 
THE OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE.
    Section 5(a)(4) of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 
U.S.C. 3506(a)(4)) is amended by striking ``such personnel of the 
Office of the Director of National Intelligence as the Director of 
National Intelligence may designate;'' and inserting ``current and 
former personnel of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence 
and their immediate families as the Director of National Intelligence 
may designate;''.
SEC. 6402. DESIGNATION OF THE PROGRAM MANAGER-INFORMATION-SHARING 
ENVIRONMENT.
    (a) Information-sharing Environment.--Section 1016(b) of the 
Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (6 U.S.C. 
485(b)) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``President'' and inserting 
    ``Director of National Intelligence''; and
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``President'' both places 
    that term appears and inserting ``Director of National 
    Intelligence''.
    (b) Program Manager.--Section 1016(f)(1) of the Intelligence Reform 
and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (6 U.S.C. 485(f)(1)) is amended by 
striking ``The individual designated as the program manager shall serve 
as program manager until removed from service or replaced by the 
President (at the President's sole discretion).'' and inserting 
``Beginning on the date of the enactment of the Damon Paul Nelson and 
Matthew Young Pollard Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 
2018, 2019 and 2020, each individual designated as the program manager 
shall be appointed by the Director of National Intelligence.''.
SEC. 6403. TECHNICAL MODIFICATION TO THE EXECUTIVE SCHEDULE.
    Section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security 
Center.''.
SEC. 6404. CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
    Section 103I(a) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3034(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence: 
``The Chief Financial Officer shall report directly to the Director of 
National Intelligence.''.
SEC. 6405. CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
    Section 103G(a) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3032(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence: 
``The Chief Information Officer shall report directly to the Director 
of National Intelligence.''.

                Subtitle B--Central Intelligence Agency

SEC. 6411. CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY SUBSISTENCE FOR PERSONNEL 
ASSIGNED TO AUSTERE LOCATIONS.
    Subsection (a) of section 5 of the Central Intelligence Agency Act 
of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 3506) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``(50 U.S.C. 403-4a).,'' and 
    inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 403-4a),'';
        (2) in paragraph (6), by striking ``and'' at the end;
        (3) in paragraph (7), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting ``; and''; and
        (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(8) Upon the approval of the Director, provide, during any 
    fiscal year, with or without reimbursement, subsistence to any 
    personnel assigned to an overseas location designated by the Agency 
    as an austere location.''.
SEC. 6412. SPECIAL RULES FOR CERTAIN MONTHLY WORKERS' COMPENSATION 
PAYMENTS AND OTHER PAYMENTS FOR CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY PERSONNEL.
    (a) In General.--The Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 
U.S.C. 3501 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 19 the 
following new section:
    ``SEC. 19A. SPECIAL RULES FOR CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS INJURED BY REASON 
      OF WAR, INSURGENCY, HOSTILE ACT, TERRORIST ACTIVITIES, OR 
      INCIDENTS DESIGNATED BY THE DIRECTOR.
    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) Covered dependent.--The term `covered dependent' means a 
    family member (as defined by the Director) of a covered employee 
    who, on or after September 11, 2001--
            ``(A) accompanies the covered employee to an assigned duty 
        station in a foreign country; and
            ``(B) becomes injured by reason of a qualifying injury.
        ``(2) Covered employee.--The term `covered employee' means an 
    officer or employee of the Central Intelligence Agency who, on or 
    after September 11, 2001, becomes injured by reason of a qualifying 
    injury.
        ``(3) Covered individual.--The term `covered individual' means 
    an individual who--
            ``(A)(i) is detailed to the Central Intelligence Agency 
        from other agencies of the United States Government or from the 
        Armed Forces; or
            ``(ii) is affiliated with the Central Intelligence Agency, 
        as determined by the Director; and
            ``(B) who, on or after September 11, 2001, becomes injured 
        by reason of a qualifying injury.
        ``(4) Qualifying injury.--The term `qualifying injury' means 
    the following:
            ``(A) With respect to a covered dependent, an injury 
        incurred--
                ``(i) during a period in which the covered dependent is 
            accompanying the covered employee to an assigned duty 
            station in a foreign country;
                ``(ii) in connection with war, insurgency, hostile act, 
            terrorist activity, or an incident designated for purposes 
            of this section by the Director; and
                ``(iii) that was not the result of the willful 
            misconduct of the covered dependent.
            ``(B) With respect to a covered employee or a covered 
        individual--
                ``(i) an injury incurred--

                    ``(I) during a period of assignment to a duty 
                station in a foreign country;
                    ``(II) in connection with war, insurgency, hostile 
                act, or terrorist activity; and
                    ``(III) that was not the result of the willful 
                misconduct of the covered employee or the covered 
                individual; or

                ``(ii) an injury incurred--

                    ``(I) in connection with an incident designated for 
                purposes of this section by the Director; and
                    ``(II) that was not the result of the willful 
                misconduct of the covered employee or the covered 
                individual.

    ``(b) Adjustment of Compensation for Certain Injuries.--
        ``(1) Increase.--The Director may increase the amount of 
    monthly compensation paid to a covered employee under section 8105 
    of title 5, United States Code. Subject to paragraph (2), the 
    Director may determine the amount of each such increase by taking 
    into account--
            ``(A) the severity of the qualifying injury;
            ``(B) the circumstances by which the covered employee 
        became injured; and
            ``(C) the seniority of the covered employee.
        ``(2) Maximum.--Notwithstanding chapter 81 of title 5, United 
    States Code, the total amount of monthly compensation increased 
    under paragraph (1) may not exceed the monthly pay of the maximum 
    rate of basic pay for GS-15 of the General Schedule under section 
    5332 of such title.
    ``(c) Costs for Treating Qualifying Injuries.--The Director may pay 
the costs of treating a qualifying injury of a covered employee, a 
covered individual, or a covered dependent, or may reimburse a covered 
employee, a covered individual, or a covered dependent for such costs, 
that are not otherwise covered by chapter 81 of title 5, United States 
Code, or other provision of Federal law.''.
    (b) Regulations.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency 
shall--
        (1) prescribe regulations ensuring the fair and equitable 
    implementation of section 19A of the Central Intelligence Agency 
    Act of 1949, as added by subsection (a); and
        (2) submit to the congressional intelligence committees such 
    regulations.
    (c) Application.--Section 19A of the Central Intelligence Agency 
Act of 1949, as added by subsection (a), shall apply with respect to--
        (1) payments made to covered employees (as defined in such 
    section) under section 8105 of title 5, United States Code, 
    beginning on or after the date of the enactment of this Act; and
        (2) treatment described in subsection (b) of such section 19A 
    occurring on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 6413. EXPANSION OF SECURITY PROTECTIVE SERVICE JURISDICTION OF THE 
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.
    Subsection (a)(1) of section 15 of the Central Intelligence Agency 
Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 3515(a)(1)) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``500 feet;'' and 
    inserting ``500 yards;''; and
        (2) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``500 feet.'' and 
    inserting ``500 yards.''.
SEC. 6414. REPEAL OF FOREIGN LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY REQUIREMENT FOR 
CERTAIN SENIOR LEVEL POSITIONS IN THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.
    (a) Repeal of Foreign Language Proficiency Requirement.--Section 
104A of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3036) is amended 
by striking subsection (g).
    (b) Conforming Repeal of Report Requirement.--Section 611 of the 
Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Public Law 108-
487) is amended by striking subsection (c).

     Subtitle C--Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence of 
                          Department of Energy

SEC. 6421. CONSOLIDATION OF DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY OFFICES OF 
INTELLIGENCE AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE.
    (a) In General.--Section 215 of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7144b) is amended to read as follows:


             ``office of intelligence and counterintelligence

    ``Sec. 215.  (a) Definitions.--In this section, the terms 
`intelligence community' and `National Intelligence Program' have the 
meanings given such terms in section 3 of the National Security Act of 
1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
    ``(b) In General.--There is in the Department an Office of 
Intelligence and Counterintelligence. Such office shall be under the 
National Intelligence Program.
    ``(c) Director.--(1) The head of the Office shall be the Director 
of the Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence, who shall be an 
employee in the Senior Executive Service, the Senior Intelligence 
Service, the Senior National Intelligence Service, or any other Service 
that the Secretary, in coordination with the Director of National 
Intelligence, considers appropriate. The Director of the Office shall 
report directly to the Secretary.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall select an individual to serve as the 
Director from among individuals who have substantial expertise in 
matters relating to the intelligence community, including foreign 
intelligence and counterintelligence.
    ``(d) Duties.--(1) Subject to the authority, direction, and control 
of the Secretary, the Director shall perform such duties and exercise 
such powers as the Secretary may prescribe.
    ``(2) The Director shall be responsible for establishing policy for 
intelligence and counterintelligence programs and activities at the 
Department.''.
    (b) Conforming Repeal.--Section 216 of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7144c) is hereby repealed.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents at the beginning of 
the Department of Energy Organization Act is amended by striking the 
items relating to sections 215 and 216 and inserting the following new 
item:

``Sec. 215. Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence.''.
SEC. 6422. REPEAL OF DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY INTELLIGENCE EXECUTIVE 
COMMITTEE AND BUDGET REPORTING REQUIREMENT.
    Section 214 of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 
7144a) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``(a)''; and
        (2) by striking subsections (b) and (c).

                       Subtitle D--Other Elements

SEC. 6431. PLAN FOR DESIGNATION OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE COMPONENT OF 
DEFENSE SECURITY SERVICE AS AN ELEMENT OF INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Director of National Intelligence and Under Secretary of Defense 
for Intelligence, in coordination with the Director of the National 
Counterintelligence and Security Center, shall submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees, the Committee on Armed Services 
of the Senate, and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
Representatives a plan to designate the counterintelligence component 
of the Defense Security Service of the Department of Defense as an 
element of the intelligence community by not later than January 1, 
2021. Such plan shall--
        (1) address the implications of such designation on the 
    authorities, governance, personnel, resources, information 
    technology, collection, analytic products, information sharing, and 
    business processes of the Defense Security Service and the 
    intelligence community; and
        (2) not address the personnel security functions of the Defense 
    Security Service.
SEC. 6432. NOTICE NOT REQUIRED FOR PRIVATE ENTITIES.
    Section 3553 of title 44, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (j) as subsection (k); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (i) the following:
    ``(j) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to require the Secretary to provide notice to any private 
entity before the Secretary issues a binding operational directive 
under subsection (b)(2).''.
SEC. 6433. ESTABLISHMENT OF ADVISORY BOARD FOR NATIONAL RECONNAISSANCE 
OFFICE.
    (a) Establishment.--Section 106A of the National Security Act of 
1947 (50 U.S.C. 3041a) is amended by adding at the end the following 
new subsection:
    ``(d) Advisory Board.--
        ``(1) Establishment.--There is established in the National 
    Reconnaissance Office an advisory board (in this section referred 
    to as the `Board').
        ``(2) Duties.--The Board shall--
            ``(A) study matters relating to the mission of the National 
        Reconnaissance Office, including with respect to promoting 
        innovation, competition, and resilience in space, overhead 
        reconnaissance, acquisition, and other matters; and
            ``(B) advise and report directly to the Director with 
        respect to such matters.
        ``(3) Members.--
            ``(A) Number and appointment.--
                ``(i) In general.--The Board shall be composed of five 
            members appointed by the Director from among individuals 
            with demonstrated academic, government, business, or other 
            expertise relevant to the mission and functions of the 
            National Reconnaissance Office.
                ``(ii) Notification.--Not later than 30 days after the 
            date on which the Director appoints a member to the Board, 
            the Director shall notify the congressional intelligence 
            committees and the congressional defense committees (as 
            defined in section 101(a) of title 10, United States Code) 
            of such appointment.
            ``(B) Terms.--Each member shall be appointed for a term of 
        2 years. Except as provided by subparagraph (C), a member may 
        not serve more than three terms.
            ``(C) Vacancy.--Any member appointed to fill a vacancy 
        occurring before the expiration of the term for which the 
        member's predecessor was appointed shall be appointed only for 
        the remainder of that term. A member may serve after the 
        expiration of that member's term until a successor has taken 
        office.
            ``(D) Chair.--The Board shall have a Chair, who shall be 
        appointed by the Director from among the members.
            ``(E) Travel expenses.--Each member shall receive travel 
        expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in 
        accordance with applicable provisions under subchapter I of 
        chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code.
            ``(F) Executive secretary.--The Director may appoint an 
        executive secretary, who shall be an employee of the National 
        Reconnaissance Office, to support the Board.
        ``(4) Meetings.--The Board shall meet not less than quarterly, 
    but may meet more frequently at the call of the Director.
        ``(5) Reports.--Not later than March 31 of each year, the Board 
    shall submit to the Director and to the congressional intelligence 
    committees a report on the activities and significant findings of 
    the Board during the preceding year.
        ``(6) Nonapplicability of certain requirements.--The Federal 
    Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the 
    Board.
        ``(7) Termination.--The Board shall terminate on the date that 
    is 3 years after the date of the first meeting of the Board.''.
    (b) Initial Appointments.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the National 
Reconnaissance Office shall appoint the initial five members to the 
advisory board under subsection (d) of section 106A of the National 
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3041a), as added by subsection (a).
SEC. 6434. COLLOCATION OF CERTAIN DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY 
PERSONNEL AT FIELD LOCATIONS.
    (a) Identification of Opportunities for Collocation.--Not later 
than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under 
Secretary of Homeland Security for Intelligence and Analysis shall 
identify, in consultation with the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and 
Border Protection, the Administrator of the Transportation Security 
Administration, the Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs 
Enforcement, and the heads of such other elements of the Department of 
Homeland Security as the Under Secretary considers appropriate, 
opportunities for collocation of officers of the Office of Intelligence 
and Analysis in the field outside of the greater Washington, District 
of Columbia, area in order to support operational units from U.S. 
Customs and Border Protection, the Transportation Security 
Administration, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and other 
elements of the Department of Homeland Security.
    (b) Plan for Collocation.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary shall submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees a report that includes a plan for 
collocation as described in subsection (a).

                      TITLE LXV--ELECTION MATTERS

SEC. 6501. REPORT ON CYBER ATTACKS BY FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS AGAINST 
UNITED STATES ELECTION INFRASTRUCTURE.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the congressional intelligence committees;
            (B) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
        Affairs of the Senate;
            (C) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
        Representatives;
            (D) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
            (E) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives.
        (2) Congressional leadership.--The term ``congressional 
    leadership'' includes the following:
            (A) The majority leader of the Senate.
            (B) The minority leader of the Senate.
            (C) The Speaker of the House of Representatives.
            (D) The minority leader of the House of Representatives.
        (3) State.--The term ``State'' means any State of the United 
    States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, 
    and any territory or possession of the United States.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Homeland Security for 
Intelligence and Analysis shall submit to congressional leadership and 
the appropriate congressional committees a report on cyber attacks and 
attempted cyber attacks by foreign governments on United States 
election infrastructure in States and localities in connection with the 
2016 Presidential election in the United States and such cyber attacks 
or attempted cyber attacks as the Under Secretary anticipates against 
such infrastructure. Such report shall identify the States and 
localities affected and shall include cyber attacks and attempted cyber 
attacks against voter registration databases, voting machines, voting-
related computer networks, and the networks of Secretaries of State and 
other election officials of the various States.
    (c) Form.--The report submitted under subsection (b) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 6502. REVIEW OF INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY'S POSTURE TO COLLECT 
AGAINST AND ANALYZE RUSSIAN EFFORTS TO INFLUENCE THE PRESIDENTIAL 
ELECTION.
    (a) Review Required.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall--
        (1) complete an after action review of the posture of the 
    intelligence community to collect against and analyze efforts of 
    the Government of Russia to interfere in the 2016 Presidential 
    election in the United States; and
        (2) submit to the congressional intelligence committees a 
    report on the findings of the Director with respect to such review.
    (b) Elements.--The review required by subsection (a) shall include, 
with respect to the posture and efforts described in paragraph (1) of 
such subsection, the following:
        (1) An assessment of whether the resources of the intelligence 
    community were properly aligned to detect and respond to the 
    efforts described in subsection (a)(1).
        (2) An assessment of the information sharing that occurred 
    within elements of the intelligence community.
        (3) An assessment of the information sharing that occurred 
    between elements of the intelligence community.
        (4) An assessment of applicable authorities necessary to 
    collect on any such efforts and any deficiencies in those 
    authorities.
        (5) A review of the use of open source material to inform 
    analysis and warning of such efforts.
        (6) A review of the use of alternative and predictive analysis.
    (c) Form of Report.--The report required by subsection (a)(2) shall 
be submitted to the congressional intelligence committees in a 
classified form.
SEC. 6503. ASSESSMENT OF FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE THREATS TO FEDERAL 
ELECTIONS.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the congressional intelligence committees;
            (B) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
        Affairs of the Senate; and
            (C) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
        Representatives.
        (2) Congressional leadership.--The term ``congressional 
    leadership'' includes the following:
            (A) The majority leader of the Senate.
            (B) The minority leader of the Senate.
            (C) The Speaker of the House of Representatives.
            (D) The minority leader of the House of Representatives.
        (3) Security vulnerability.--The term ``security 
    vulnerability'' has the meaning given such term in section 102 of 
    the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 (6 U.S.C. 1501).
    (b) In General.--The Director of National Intelligence, in 
coordination with the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, the 
Director of the National Security Agency, the Director of the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the 
heads of other relevant elements of the intelligence community, shall--
        (1) commence not later than 1 year before any regularly 
    scheduled Federal election occurring after December 31, 2018, and 
    complete not later than 180 days before such election, an 
    assessment of security vulnerabilities of State election systems; 
    and
        (2) not later than 180 days before any regularly scheduled 
    Federal election occurring after December 31, 2018, submit a report 
    on such security vulnerabilities and an assessment of foreign 
    intelligence threats to the election to--
            (A) congressional leadership; and
            (B) the appropriate congressional committees.
    (c) Update.--Not later than 90 days before any regularly scheduled 
Federal election occurring after December 31, 2018, the Director of 
National Intelligence shall--
        (1) update the assessment of foreign intelligence threats to 
    that election; and
        (2) submit the updated assessment to--
            (A) congressional leadership; and
            (B) the appropriate congressional committees.
SEC. 6504. STRATEGY FOR COUNTERING RUSSIAN CYBER THREATS TO UNITED 
STATES ELECTIONS.
    (a) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
        (1) The congressional intelligence committees.
        (2) The Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
        (3) The Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Homeland Security of the House of Representatives.
        (4) The Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
        (5) The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
    Representatives.
    (b) Requirement for a Strategy.--Not later than 90 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National 
Intelligence, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Director of 
the Central Intelligence Agency, the Secretary of State, the Secretary 
of Defense, and the Secretary of the Treasury, shall develop a whole-
of-government strategy for countering the threat of Russian cyber 
attacks and attempted cyber attacks against electoral systems and 
processes in the United States, including Federal, State, and local 
election systems, voter registration databases, voting tabulation 
equipment, and equipment and processes for the secure transmission of 
election results.
    (c) Elements of the Strategy.--The strategy required by subsection 
(b) shall include the following elements:
        (1) A whole-of-government approach to protecting United States 
    electoral systems and processes that includes the agencies and 
    departments indicated in subsection (b) as well as any other 
    agencies and departments of the United States, as determined 
    appropriate by the Director of National Intelligence and the 
    Secretary of Homeland Security.
        (2) Input solicited from Secretaries of State of the various 
    States and the chief election officials of the States.
        (3) Technical security measures, including auditable paper 
    trails for voting machines, securing wireless and internet 
    connections, and other technical safeguards.
        (4) Detection of cyber threats, including attacks and attempted 
    attacks by Russian government or nongovernment cyber threat actors.
        (5) Improvements in the identification and attribution of 
    Russian government or nongovernment cyber threat actors.
        (6) Deterrence, including actions and measures that could or 
    should be undertaken against or communicated to the Government of 
    Russia or other entities to deter attacks against, or interference 
    with, United States election systems and processes.
        (7) Improvements in Federal Government communications with 
    State and local election officials.
        (8) Public education and communication efforts.
        (9) Benchmarks and milestones to enable the measurement of 
    concrete steps taken and progress made in the implementation of the 
    strategy.
    (d) Congressional Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence and 
the Secretary of Homeland Security shall jointly brief the appropriate 
congressional committees on the strategy developed under subsection 
(b).
SEC. 6505. ASSESSMENT OF SIGNIFICANT RUSSIAN INFLUENCE CAMPAIGNS 
DIRECTED AT FOREIGN ELECTIONS AND REFERENDA.
    (a) Russian Influence Campaign Defined.--In this section, the term 
``Russian influence campaign'' means any effort, covert or overt, and 
by any means, attributable to the Russian Federation directed at an 
election, referendum, or similar process in a country other than the 
Russian Federation or the United States.
    (b) Assessment Required.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to the congressional intelligence committees, the Committee on 
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
Foreign Relations of the Senate a report containing an analytical 
assessment of the most significant Russian influence campaigns, if any, 
conducted during the 3-year period preceding the date of the enactment 
of this Act, as well as the most significant current or planned such 
Russian influence campaigns, if any. Such assessment shall include--
        (1) a summary of such significant Russian influence campaigns, 
    including, at a minimum, the specific means by which such campaigns 
    were conducted, are being conducted, or likely will be conducted, 
    as appropriate, and the specific goal of each such campaign;
        (2) a summary of any defenses against or responses to such 
    Russian influence campaigns by the foreign state holding the 
    elections or referenda;
        (3) a summary of any relevant activities by elements of the 
    intelligence community undertaken for the purpose of assisting the 
    government of such foreign state in defending against or responding 
    to such Russian influence campaigns; and
        (4) an assessment of the effectiveness of such defenses and 
    responses described in paragraphs (2) and (3).
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (b) may be submitted 
in classified form, but if so submitted, shall contain an unclassified 
summary.
SEC. 6506. INFORMATION SHARING WITH STATE ELECTION OFFICIALS.
    (a) State Defined.--In this section, the term ``State'' means any 
State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth 
of Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of the United States.
    (b) Security Clearances.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
    support the Under Secretary of Homeland Security for Intelligence 
    and Analysis, and any other official of the Department of Homeland 
    Security designated by the Secretary of Homeland Security, in 
    sponsoring a security clearance up to the top secret level for each 
    eligible chief election official of a State or the District of 
    Columbia, and additional eligible designees of such election 
    official as appropriate, at the time that such election official 
    assumes such position.
        (2) Interim clearances.--Consistent with applicable policies 
    and directives, the Director of National Intelligence may issue 
    interim clearances, for a period to be determined by the Director, 
    to a chief election official as described in paragraph (1) and up 
    to one designee of such official under such paragraph.
    (c) Information Sharing.--
        (1) In general.--The Director of National Intelligence shall 
    assist the Under Secretary of Homeland Security for Intelligence 
    and Analysis and the Under Secretary responsible for overseeing 
    critical infrastructure protection, cybersecurity, and other 
    related programs of the Department (as specified in section 
    103(a)(1)(H) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
    113(a)(1)(H))) with sharing any appropriate classified information 
    related to threats to election systems and to the integrity of the 
    election process with chief election officials and such designees 
    who have received a security clearance under subsection (b).
        (2) Coordination.--The Under Secretary of Homeland Security for 
    Intelligence and Analysis shall coordinate with the Director of 
    National Intelligence and the Under Secretary responsible for 
    overseeing critical infrastructure protection, cybersecurity, and 
    other related programs of the Department (as specified in section 
    103(a)(1)(H) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
    113(a)(1)(H))) to facilitate the sharing of information to the 
    affected Secretaries of State or States.
SEC. 6507. NOTIFICATION OF SIGNIFICANT FOREIGN CYBER INTRUSIONS AND 
ACTIVE MEASURES CAMPAIGNS DIRECTED AT ELECTIONS FOR FEDERAL OFFICES.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Active measures campaign.--The term ``active measures 
    campaign'' means a foreign semi-covert or covert intelligence 
    operation.
        (2) Candidate, election, and political party.--The terms 
    ``candidate'', ``election'', and ``political party'' have the 
    meanings given those terms in section 301 of the Federal Election 
    Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30101).
        (3) Congressional leadership.--The term ``congressional 
    leadership'' includes the following:
            (A) The majority leader of the Senate.
            (B) The minority leader of the Senate.
            (C) The Speaker of the House of Representatives.
            (D) The minority leader of the House of Representatives.
        (4) Cyber intrusion.--The term ``cyber intrusion'' means an 
    electronic occurrence that actually or imminently jeopardizes, 
    without lawful authority, electronic election infrastructure, or 
    the integrity, confidentiality, or availability of information 
    within such infrastructure.
        (5) Electronic election infrastructure.--The term ``electronic 
    election infrastructure'' means an electronic information system of 
    any of the following that is related to an election for Federal 
    office:
            (A) The Federal Government.
            (B) A State or local government.
            (C) A political party.
            (D) The election campaign of a candidate.
        (6) Federal office.--The term ``Federal office'' has the 
    meaning given that term in section 301 of the Federal Election 
    Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30101).
        (7) High confidence.--The term ``high confidence'', with 
    respect to a determination, means that the determination is based 
    on high-quality information from multiple sources.
        (8) Moderate confidence.--The term ``moderate confidence'', 
    with respect to a determination, means that a determination is 
    credibly sourced and plausible but not of sufficient quality or 
    corroborated sufficiently to warrant a higher level of confidence.
        (9) Other appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``other appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, the Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of 
        the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Homeland Security, and the 
        Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
    (b) Determinations of Significant Foreign Cyber Intrusions and 
Active Measures Campaigns.--The Director of National Intelligence, the 
Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Secretary of 
Homeland Security shall jointly carry out subsection (c) if such 
Directors and the Secretary jointly determine--
        (1) that on or after the date of the enactment of this Act, a 
    significant foreign cyber intrusion or active measures campaign 
    intended to influence an upcoming election for any Federal office 
    has occurred or is occurring; and
        (2) with moderate or high confidence, that such intrusion or 
    campaign can be attributed to a foreign state or to a foreign 
    nonstate person, group, or other entity.
    (c) Briefing.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 14 days after making a 
    determination under subsection (b), the Director of National 
    Intelligence, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, 
    and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall jointly provide a 
    briefing to the congressional leadership, the congressional 
    intelligence committees and, consistent with the protection of 
    sources and methods, the other appropriate congressional 
    committees. The briefing shall be classified and address, at a 
    minimum, the following:
            (A) A description of the significant foreign cyber 
        intrusion or active measures campaign, as the case may be, 
        covered by the determination.
            (B) An identification of the foreign state or foreign 
        nonstate person, group, or other entity, to which such 
        intrusion or campaign has been attributed.
            (C) The desirability and feasibility of the public release 
        of information about the cyber intrusion or active measures 
        campaign.
            (D) Any other information such Directors and the Secretary 
        jointly determine appropriate.
        (2) Electronic election infrastructure briefings.--With respect 
    to a significant foreign cyber intrusion covered by a determination 
    under subsection (b), the Secretary of Homeland Security, in 
    consultation with the Director of National Intelligence and the 
    Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, shall offer to the 
    owner or operator of any electronic election infrastructure 
    directly affected by such intrusion, a briefing on such intrusion, 
    including steps that may be taken to mitigate such intrusion. Such 
    briefing may be classified and made available only to individuals 
    with appropriate security clearances.
        (3) Protection of sources and methods.--This subsection shall 
    be carried out in a manner that is consistent with the protection 
    of sources and methods.
SEC. 6508. DESIGNATION OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE OFFICER TO LEAD ELECTION 
SECURITY MATTERS.
    (a) In General.--The Director of National Intelligence shall 
designate a national counterintelligence officer within the National 
Counterintelligence and Security Center to lead, manage, and coordinate 
counterintelligence matters relating to election security.
    (b) Additional Responsibilities.--The person designated under 
subsection (a) shall also lead, manage, and coordinate 
counterintelligence matters relating to risks posed by interference 
from foreign powers (as defined in section 101 of the Foreign 
Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801)) to the 
following:
        (1) The Federal Government election security supply chain.
        (2) Election voting systems and software.
        (3) Voter registration databases.
        (4) Critical infrastructure related to elections.
        (5) Such other Government goods and services as the Director of 
    National Intelligence considers appropriate.

                    TITLE LXVI--SECURITY CLEARANCES

SEC. 6601. DEFINITIONS.
    In this title:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the congressional intelligence committees;
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
            (C) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
            (D) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
        Affairs of the Senate;
            (E) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
        Representatives;
            (F) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives;
            (G) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
        Representatives; and
            (H) the Committee on Oversight and Reform of the House of 
        Representatives.
        (2) Appropriate industry partner.--The term ``appropriate 
    industry partner'' means a contractor, licensee, or grantee (as 
    defined in section 101(a) of Executive Order No. 12829 (50 U.S.C. 
    3161 note; relating to National Industrial Security Program)) that 
    is participating in the National Industrial Security Program 
    established by such Executive order.
        (3) Continuous vetting.--The term ``continuous vetting'' has 
    the meaning given such term in Executive Order No. 13467 (50 U.S.C. 
    3161 note; relating to reforming processes for determining 
    suitability for government employment, fitness for contractor 
    employees, and eligibility for access to classified national 
    security information).
        (4) Council.--The term ``Council'' means the Security, 
    Suitability, and Credentialing Performance Accountability Council 
    established pursuant to such Executive order, or any successor 
    entity.
        (5) Reciprocity.--The term ``reciprocity'' means reciprocal 
    recognition by Federal departments and agencies of eligibility for 
    access to classified information.
        (6) Security executive agent.--The term ``Security Executive 
    Agent'' means the officer serving as the Security Executive Agent 
    pursuant to section 803 of the National Security Act of 1947, as 
    added by section 6605.
        (7) Suitability and credentialing executive agent.--The term 
    ``Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent'' means the 
    Director of the Office of Personnel Management acting as the 
    Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent in accordance with 
    Executive Order No. 13467 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to 
    reforming processes related to suitability for Government 
    employment, fitness for contractor employees, and eligibility for 
    access to classified national security information), or any 
    successor entity.
SEC. 6602. REPORTS AND PLANS RELATING TO SECURITY CLEARANCES AND 
BACKGROUND INVESTIGATIONS.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) ensuring the trustworthiness and security of the workforce, 
    facilities, and information of the Federal Government is of the 
    highest priority to national security and public safety;
        (2) the President and Congress should prioritize the 
    modernization of the personnel security framework to improve its 
    efficiency, effectiveness, and accountability;
        (3) the current system for background investigations for 
    security clearances, suitability and fitness for employment, and 
    credentialing lacks efficiencies and capabilities to meet the 
    current threat environment, recruit and retain a trusted workforce, 
    and capitalize on modern technologies; and
        (4) changes to policies or processes to improve this system 
    should be vetted through the Council to ensure standardization, 
    portability, and reciprocity in security clearances across the 
    Federal Government.
    (b) Accountability Plans and Reports.--
        (1) Plans.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Council shall submit to the appropriate 
    congressional committees and make available to appropriate industry 
    partners the following:
            (A) A plan, with milestones, to reduce the background 
        investigation inventory to 200,000, or an otherwise sustainable 
        steady-level, by the end of year 2020. Such plan shall include 
        notes of any required changes in investigative and adjudicative 
        standards or resources.
            (B) A plan to consolidate the conduct of background 
        investigations associated with the processing for security 
        clearances in the most effective and efficient manner in the 
        Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency. Such plan 
        shall address required funding, personnel, contracts, 
        information technology, field office structure, policy, 
        governance, schedule, transition costs, and effects on 
        stakeholders.
        (2) Report on the future of personnel security.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Chairman of the Council, in 
        coordination with the members of the Council, shall submit to 
        the appropriate congressional committees and make available to 
        appropriate industry partners a report on the future of 
        personnel security to reflect changes in threats, the 
        workforce, and technology.
            (B) Contents.--The report submitted under subparagraph (A) 
        shall include the following:
                (i) A risk framework for granting and renewing access 
            to classified information.
                (ii) A discussion of the use of technologies to 
            prevent, detect, and monitor threats.
                (iii) A discussion of efforts to address reciprocity 
            and portability.
                (iv) A discussion of the characteristics of effective 
            insider threat programs.
                (v) An analysis of how to integrate data from 
            continuous vetting, insider threat programs, and human 
            resources data.
                (vi) Recommendations on interagency governance.
        (3) Plan for implementation.--Not later than 180 days after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, the Chairman of the Council, in 
    coordination with the members of the Council, shall submit to the 
    appropriate congressional committees and make available to 
    appropriate industry partners a plan to implement the report's 
    framework and recommendations submitted under paragraph (2)(A).
        (4) Congressional notifications.--Not less frequently than 
    quarterly, the Security Executive Agent shall make available to the 
    public a report regarding the status of the disposition of requests 
    received from departments and agencies of the Federal Government 
    for a change to, or approval under, the Federal investigative 
    standards, the national adjudicative guidelines, continuous 
    vetting, or other national policy regarding personnel security.
SEC. 6603. IMPROVING THE PROCESS FOR SECURITY CLEARANCES.
    (a) Reviews.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Security Executive Agent, in coordination 
with the members of the Council, shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees and make available to appropriate industry 
partners a report that includes the following:
        (1) A review of whether the information requested on the 
    Questionnaire for National Security Positions (Standard Form 86) 
    and by the Federal Investigative Standards prescribed by the 
    Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent and the Security 
    Executive Agent appropriately supports the adjudicative guidelines 
    under Security Executive Agent Directive 4 (known as the ``National 
    Security Adjudicative Guidelines''). Such review shall include 
    identification of whether any such information currently collected 
    is unnecessary to support the adjudicative guidelines.
        (2) An assessment of whether such Questionnaire, Standards, and 
    guidelines should be revised to account for the prospect of a 
    holder of a security clearance becoming an insider threat.
        (3) Recommendations to improve the background investigation 
    process by--
            (A) simplifying the Questionnaire for National Security 
        Positions (Standard Form 86) and increasing customer support to 
        applicants completing such Questionnaire;
            (B) using remote techniques and centralized locations to 
        support or replace field investigation work;
            (C) using secure and reliable digitization of information 
        obtained during the clearance process;
            (D) building the capacity of the background investigation 
        workforce; and
            (E) replacing periodic reinvestigations with continuous 
        vetting techniques in all appropriate circumstances.
    (b) Policy, Strategy, and Implementation.--Not later than 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Security Executive 
Agent shall, in coordination with the members of the Council, establish 
the following:
        (1) A policy and implementation plan for the issuance of 
    interim security clearances.
        (2) A policy and implementation plan to ensure contractors are 
    treated consistently in the security clearance process across 
    agencies and departments of the United States as compared to 
    employees of such agencies and departments. Such policy shall 
    address--
            (A) prioritization of processing security clearances based 
        on the mission the contractors will be performing;
            (B) standardization in the forms that agencies issue to 
        initiate the process for a security clearance;
            (C) digitization of background investigation-related forms;
            (D) use of the polygraph;
            (E) the application of the adjudicative guidelines under 
        Security Executive Agent Directive 4 (known as the ``National 
        Security Adjudicative Guidelines'');
            (F) reciprocal recognition of clearances across agencies 
        and departments of the United States, regardless of status of 
        periodic reinvestigation;
            (G) tracking of clearance files as individuals move from 
        employment with an agency or department of the United States to 
        employment in the private sector;
            (H) collection of timelines for movement of contractors 
        across agencies and departments;
            (I) reporting on security incidents and job performance, 
        consistent with section 552a of title 5, United States Code 
        (commonly known as the ``Privacy Act of 1974''), that may 
        affect the ability to hold a security clearance;
            (J) any recommended changes to the Federal Acquisition 
        Regulations (FAR) necessary to ensure that information 
        affecting contractor clearances or suitability is appropriately 
        and expeditiously shared between and among agencies and 
        contractors; and
            (K) portability of contractor security clearances between 
        or among contracts at the same agency and between or among 
        contracts at different agencies that require the same level of 
        clearance.
        (3) A strategy and implementation plan that--
            (A) provides for periodic reinvestigations as part of a 
        security clearance determination only on an as-needed, risk-
        based basis;
            (B) includes actions to assess the extent to which 
        automated records checks and other continuous vetting methods 
        may be used to expedite or focus reinvestigations; and
            (C) provides an exception to the requirement under 
        subparagraph (A) for certain populations if the Security 
        Executive Agent--
                (i) determines such populations require 
            reinvestigations at regular intervals; and
                (ii) provides written justification to the appropriate 
            congressional committees for any such determination.
        (4) A policy and implementation plan for agencies and 
    departments of the United States, as a part of the security 
    clearance process, to accept automated records checks generated 
    pursuant to a security clearance applicant's employment with a 
    prior employer.
        (5) A policy for the use of certain background information on 
    individuals collected by the private sector for background 
    investigation purposes.
        (6) Uniform standards for agency continuous vetting programs to 
    ensure quality and reciprocity in accepting enrollment in a 
    continuous vetting program as a substitute for a periodic 
    investigation for continued access to classified information.
SEC. 6604. GOALS FOR PROMPTNESS OF DETERMINATIONS REGARDING SECURITY 
CLEARANCES.
    (a) In General.--The Council shall reform the security clearance 
process with the objective that, by December 31, 2021, 90 percent of 
all determinations, other than determinations regarding populations 
identified under section 6603(b)(3)(C), regarding--
        (1) security clearances--
            (A) at the secret level are issued in 30 days or fewer; and
            (B) at the top secret level are issued in 90 days or fewer; 
        and
        (2) reciprocity of security clearances at the same level are 
    recognized in 2 weeks or fewer.
    (b) Certain Reinvestigations.--The Council shall reform the 
security clearance process with the goal that by December 31, 2021, 
reinvestigation on a set periodicity is not required for more than 10 
percent of the population that holds a security clearance.
    (c) Equivalent Metrics.--
        (1) In general.--If the Council develops a set of performance 
    metrics that it certifies to the appropriate congressional 
    committees should achieve substantially equivalent outcomes as 
    those outlined in subsections (b) and (c), the Council may use 
    those metrics for purposes of compliance within this provision.
        (2) Notice.--If the Council uses the authority provided by 
    paragraph (1) to use metrics as described in such paragraph, the 
    Council shall, not later than 30 days after communicating such 
    metrics to departments and agencies, notify the appropriate 
    congressional committees that it is using such authority.
    (d) Plan.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Council shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees and make available to appropriate industry partners a plan 
to carry out this section. Such plan shall include recommended interim 
milestones for the goals set forth in subsections (b) and (c) for 2019, 
2020, and 2021.
SEC. 6605. SECURITY EXECUTIVE AGENT.
    (a) In General.--Title VIII of the National Security Act of 1947 
(50 U.S.C. 3161 et seq.) is amended--
        (1) by redesignating sections 803 and 804 as sections 804 and 
    805, respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after section 802 the following:
    ``SEC. 803. SECURITY EXECUTIVE AGENT.
    ``(a) In General.--The Director of National Intelligence, or such 
other officer of the United States as the President may designate, 
shall serve as the Security Executive Agent for all departments and 
agencies of the United States.
    ``(b) Duties.--The duties of the Security Executive Agent are as 
follows:
        ``(1) To direct the oversight of investigations, 
    reinvestigations, adjudications, and, as applicable, polygraphs for 
    eligibility for access to classified information or eligibility to 
    hold a sensitive position made by any Federal agency.
        ``(2) To review the national security background investigation 
    and adjudication programs of Federal agencies to determine whether 
    such programs are being implemented in accordance with this 
    section.
        ``(3) To develop and issue uniform and consistent policies and 
    procedures to ensure the effective, efficient, timely, and secure 
    completion of investigations, polygraphs, and adjudications 
    relating to determinations of eligibility for access to classified 
    information or eligibility to hold a sensitive position.
        ``(4) Unless otherwise designated by law, to serve as the final 
    authority to designate a Federal agency or agencies to conduct 
    investigations of persons who are proposed for access to classified 
    information or for eligibility to hold a sensitive position to 
    ascertain whether such persons satisfy the criteria for obtaining 
    and retaining access to classified information or eligibility to 
    hold a sensitive position, as applicable.
        ``(5) Unless otherwise designated by law, to serve as the final 
    authority to designate a Federal agency or agencies to determine 
    eligibility for access to classified information or eligibility to 
    hold a sensitive position in accordance with Executive Order No. 
    12968 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to access to classified 
    information).
        ``(6) To review and approve the policies of the Federal 
    agencies that ensure reciprocal recognition of eligibility for 
    access to classified information or eligibility to hold a sensitive 
    position among Federal agencies, and to act as the final authority 
    to arbitrate and resolve disputes among such agencies involving the 
    reciprocity of investigations and adjudications of eligibility.
        ``(7) To execute all other duties assigned to the Security 
    Executive Agent by law.
    ``(c) Authorities.--The Security Executive Agent shall--
        ``(1) issue guidelines and instructions to the heads of Federal 
    agencies to ensure appropriate uniformity, centralization, 
    efficiency, effectiveness, timeliness, and security in processes 
    relating to determinations by such agencies of eligibility for 
    access to classified information or eligibility to hold a sensitive 
    position, including such matters as investigations, polygraphs, 
    adjudications, and reciprocity;
        ``(2) have the authority to grant exceptions to, or waivers of, 
    national security investigative requirements, including issuing 
    implementing or clarifying guidance, as necessary;
        ``(3) have the authority to assign, in whole or in part, to the 
    head of any Federal agency (solely or jointly) any of the duties of 
    the Security Executive Agent described in subsection (b) or the 
    authorities described in paragraphs (1) and (2), provided that the 
    exercise of such assigned duties or authorities is subject to the 
    oversight of the Security Executive Agent, including such terms and 
    conditions (including approval by the Security Executive Agent) as 
    the Security Executive Agent determines appropriate; and
        ``(4) define and set standards for continuous vetting for 
    continued access to classified information and for eligibility to 
    hold a sensitive position.''.
    (b) Report on Recommendations for Revising Authorities.--Not later 
than 30 days after the date on which the Chairman of the Council 
submits to the appropriate congressional committees the report required 
by section 6602(b)(2)(A), the Chairman shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees such recommendations as the Chairman may have 
for revising the authorities of the Security Executive Agent.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Section 103H(j)(4)(A) of such Act (50 
U.S.C. 3033(j)(4)(A)) is amended by striking ``in section 804'' and 
inserting ``in section 805''.
    (d) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in the matter 
preceding section 2 of such Act (50 U.S.C. 3002) is amended by striking 
the items relating to sections 803 and 804 and inserting the following:

``Sec. 803. Security Executive Agent.
``Sec. 804. Exceptions.
``Sec. 805. Definitions.''.
SEC. 6606. REPORT ON UNIFIED, SIMPLIFIED, GOVERNMENTWIDE STANDARDS FOR 
POSITIONS OF TRUST AND SECURITY CLEARANCES.
    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Security Executive Agent and the Suitability and Credentialing 
Executive Agent, in coordination with the other members of the Council, 
shall jointly submit to the appropriate congressional committees and 
make available to appropriate industry partners a report regarding the 
advisability and the risks, benefits, and costs to the Government and 
to industry of consolidating to not more than three tiers for positions 
of trust and security clearances.
SEC. 6607. REPORT ON CLEARANCE IN PERSON CONCEPT.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that to reflect 
the greater mobility of the modern workforce, alternative methodologies 
merit analysis to allow greater flexibility for individuals moving in 
and out of positions that require access to classified information, 
while still preserving security.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Security Executive Agent shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees and make available to appropriate 
industry partners a report that describes the requirements, 
feasibility, and advisability of implementing a clearance in person 
concept described in subsection (c).
    (c) Clearance in Person Concept.--The clearance in person concept--
        (1) permits an individual who once held a security clearance to 
    maintain his or her eligibility for access to classified 
    information, networks, and facilities for up to 3 years after the 
    individual's eligibility for access to classified information would 
    otherwise lapse; and
        (2) recognizes, unless otherwise directed by the Security 
    Executive Agent, an individual's security clearance and background 
    investigation as current, regardless of employment status, 
    contingent on enrollment in a continuous vetting program.
    (d) Contents.--The report required under subsection (b) shall 
address--
        (1) requirements for an individual to voluntarily remain in a 
    continuous vetting program validated by the Security Executive 
    Agent even if the individual is not in a position requiring access 
    to classified information;
        (2) appropriate safeguards for privacy;
        (3) advantages to government and industry;
        (4) the costs and savings associated with implementation;
        (5) the risks of such implementation, including security and 
    counterintelligence risks;
        (6) an appropriate funding model; and
        (7) fairness to small companies and independent contractors.
SEC. 6608. REPORTS ON RECIPROCITY FOR SECURITY CLEARANCES INSIDE OF 
DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES.
    (a) Reports to Security Executive Agent.--The head of each Federal 
department or agency shall submit an annual report to the Security 
Executive Agent that, with respect to the period covered by the 
report--
        (1) identifies the number of individuals whose security 
    clearances took more than 2 weeks for reciprocity recognition after 
    such individuals move to another part of such department or agency; 
    and
        (2) breaks out the information described in paragraph (1) by 
    type of clearance and the reasons for any delays.
    (b) Annual Report.--Not less frequently than once each year, the 
Security Executive Agent shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees and make available to industry partners a report that 
summarizes the information received pursuant to subsection (b) during 
the period covered by such report.
SEC. 6609. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY REPORTS ON SECURITY CLEARANCES.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) despite sustained efforts by Congress and the executive 
    branch, an unacceptable backlog in processing and adjudicating 
    security clearances persists, both within elements of the 
    intelligence community and in other departments of the Federal 
    Government, with some processing times exceeding a year or even 
    more;
        (2) the protracted clearance timetable threatens the ability of 
    elements of the intelligence community to hire and retain highly 
    qualified individuals, and thus to fulfill the missions of such 
    elements;
        (3) the prospect of a lengthy clearance process deters some 
    such individuals from seeking employment with the intelligence 
    community in the first place, and, when faced with a long wait 
    time, those with conditional offers of employment may opt to 
    discontinue the security clearance process and pursue different 
    opportunities;
        (4) now more than ever, therefore, the broken security 
    clearance process badly needs fundamental reform; and
        (5) in the meantime, to ensure the ability of elements of the 
    intelligence community to hire and retain highly qualified 
    personnel, elements should consider, to the extent possible and 
    consistent with national security, permitting new employees to 
    enter on duty immediately or nearly so, and to perform, on a 
    temporary basis pending final adjudication of their security 
    clearances, work that either does not require a security clearance 
    or requires only a low-level interim clearance.
    (b) Reports Required.--Section 506H of the National Security Act of 
1947 (50 U.S.C. 3104) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
            (A) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by adding ``and'' at the end;
            (B) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking ``; and'' and 
        inserting a period; and
            (C) by striking subparagraph (C);
        (2) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c);
        (3) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
    ``(b) Intelligence Community Reports.--(1)(A) Not later than March 
1 of each year, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit a 
report to the congressional intelligence committees, the Committee on 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate, the Committee 
on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives, and the Committee 
on Oversight and Reform of the House of Representatives regarding the 
security clearances processed by each element of the intelligence 
community during the preceding fiscal year.
    ``(B) The Director shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services 
of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
Representatives such portions of the report submitted under 
subparagraph (A) as the Director determines address elements of the 
intelligence community that are within the Department of Defense.
    ``(C) Each report submitted under this paragraph shall separately 
identify security clearances processed for Federal employees and 
contractor employees sponsored by each such element.
    ``(2) Each report submitted under paragraph (1)(A) shall include, 
for each element of the intelligence community for the fiscal year 
covered by the report, the following:
        ``(A) The total number of initial security clearance background 
    investigations sponsored for new applicants.
        ``(B) The total number of security clearance periodic 
    reinvestigations sponsored for existing employees.
        ``(C) The total number of initial security clearance background 
    investigations for new applicants that were adjudicated with notice 
    of a determination provided to the prospective applicant, 
    including--
            ``(i) the total number of such adjudications that were 
        adjudicated favorably and granted access to classified 
        information; and
            ``(ii) the total number of such adjudications that were 
        adjudicated unfavorably and resulted in a denial or revocation 
        of a security clearance.
        ``(D) The total number of security clearance periodic 
    background investigations that were adjudicated with notice of a 
    determination provided to the existing employee, including--
            ``(i) the total number of such adjudications that were 
        adjudicated favorably; and
            ``(ii) the total number of such adjudications that were 
        adjudicated unfavorably and resulted in a denial or revocation 
        of a security clearance.
        ``(E) The total number of pending security clearance background 
    investigations, including initial applicant investigations and 
    periodic reinvestigations, that were not adjudicated as of the last 
    day of such year and that remained pending, categorized as follows:
            ``(i) For 180 days or shorter.
            ``(ii) For longer than 180 days, but shorter than 12 
        months.
            ``(iii) For 12 months or longer, but shorter than 18 
        months.
            ``(iv) For 18 months or longer, but shorter than 24 months.
            ``(v) For 24 months or longer.
        ``(F) For any security clearance determinations completed or 
    pending during the year preceding the year for which the report is 
    submitted that have taken longer than 12 months to complete--
            ``(i) an explanation of the causes for the delays incurred 
        during the period covered by the report; and
            ``(ii) the number of such delays involving a polygraph 
        requirement.
        ``(G) The percentage of security clearance investigations, 
    including initial and periodic reinvestigations, that resulted in a 
    denial or revocation of a security clearance.
        ``(H) The percentage of security clearance investigations that 
    resulted in incomplete information.
        ``(I) The percentage of security clearance investigations that 
    did not result in enough information to make a decision on 
    potentially adverse information.
    ``(3) The report required under this subsection shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.''; and
        (4) in subsection (c), as redesignated, by striking 
    ``subsection (a)(1)'' and inserting ``subsections (a)(1) and (b)''.
SEC. 6610. PERIODIC REPORT ON POSITIONS IN THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY 
THAT CAN BE CONDUCTED WITHOUT ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION, 
NETWORKS, OR FACILITIES.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act 
and not less frequently than once every 5 years thereafter, the 
Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the congressional 
intelligence committees a report that reviews the intelligence 
community for which positions can be conducted without access to 
classified information, networks, or facilities, or may only require a 
security clearance at the secret level.
SEC. 6611. INFORMATION-SHARING PROGRAM FOR POSITIONS OF TRUST AND 
SECURITY CLEARANCES.
    (a) Program Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Security Executive Agent and the 
    Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent shall establish and 
    implement a program to share between and among agencies of the 
    Federal Government and industry partners of the Federal Government 
    relevant background information regarding individuals applying for 
    and currently occupying national security positions and positions 
    of trust, in order to ensure the Federal Government maintains a 
    trusted workforce.
        (2) Designation.--The program established under paragraph (1) 
    shall be known as the ``Trusted Information Provider Program'' (in 
    this section referred to as the ``Program'').
    (b) Privacy Safeguards.--The Security Executive Agent and the 
Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent shall ensure that the 
Program includes such safeguards for privacy as the Security Executive 
Agent and the Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent consider 
appropriate.
    (c) Provision of Information to the Federal Government.--The 
Program shall include requirements that enable investigative service 
providers and agencies of the Federal Government to leverage certain 
pre-employment information gathered through private-sector means during 
the employment or military recruiting process, and other relevant 
security or human resources information obtained during employment with 
or for the Federal Government, that satisfy Federal investigative 
standards, while safeguarding personnel privacy.
    (d) Information and Records.--The information and records 
considered under the Program shall include the following:
        (1) Date and place of birth.
        (2) Citizenship or immigration and naturalization information.
        (3) Education records.
        (4) Employment records.
        (5) Employment or social references.
        (6) Military service records.
        (7) State and local law enforcement checks.
        (8) Criminal history checks.
        (9) Financial records or information.
        (10) Foreign travel, relatives, or associations.
        (11) Social media checks.
        (12) Such other information or records as may be relevant to 
    obtaining or maintaining national security, suitability, fitness, 
    or credentialing eligibility.
    (e) Implementation Plan.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Security Executive Agent and the 
    Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent shall jointly submit 
    to the appropriate congressional committees and make available to 
    appropriate industry partners a plan for the implementation of the 
    Program.
        (2) Elements.--The plan required by paragraph (1) shall include 
    the following:
            (A) Mechanisms that address privacy, national security, 
        suitability or fitness, credentialing, and human resources or 
        military recruitment processes.
            (B) Such recommendations for legislative or administrative 
        action as the Security Executive Agent and the Suitability and 
        Credentialing Executive Agent consider appropriate to carry out 
        or improve the Program.
    (f) Plan for Pilot Program on Two-way Information Sharing.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Security Executive Agent and the 
    Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent shall jointly submit 
    to the appropriate congressional committees and make available to 
    appropriate industry partners a plan for the implementation of a 
    pilot program to assess the feasibility and advisability of 
    expanding the Program to include the sharing of information held by 
    the Federal Government related to contract personnel with the 
    security office of the employers of those contractor personnel.
        (2) Elements.--The plan required by paragraph (1) shall include 
    the following:
            (A) Mechanisms that address privacy, national security, 
        suitability or fitness, credentialing, and human resources or 
        military recruitment processes.
            (B) Such recommendations for legislative or administrative 
        action as the Security Executive Agent and the Suitability and 
        Credentialing Executive Agent consider appropriate to carry out 
        or improve the pilot program.
    (g) Review.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Security Executive Agent and the Suitability and 
Credentialing Executive Agent shall jointly submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees and make available to appropriate industry 
partners a review of the plans submitted under subsections (e)(1) and 
(f)(1) and utility and effectiveness of the programs described in such 
plans.
SEC. 6612. REPORT ON PROTECTIONS FOR CONFIDENTIALITY OF WHISTLEBLOWER-
RELATED COMMUNICATIONS.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Security Executive Agent shall, in coordination with the 
Inspector General of the Intelligence Community, submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees a report detailing the controls 
employed by the intelligence community to ensure that continuous 
vetting programs, including those involving user activity monitoring, 
protect the confidentiality of whistleblower-related communications.
SEC. 6613. REPORTS ON COSTS OF SECURITY CLEARANCE BACKGROUND 
INVESTIGATIONS.
    (a) Reports.--Not later than March 1, 2020, and each year 
thereafter through 2022, the Security Executive Agent, in coordination 
with the Council, shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees a report on the resources expended by each agency of the 
Federal Government during the fiscal year prior to the date of the 
report for processing security clearance background investigations and 
continuous vetting programs, disaggregated by tier and whether the 
individual was a Government employee or contractor.
    (b) Contents.--Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall 
include, for the period covered by the report--
        (1) the costs of background investigations;
        (2) the costs of reinvestigations;
        (3) the costs associated with background investigations and 
    reinvestigations for Government personnel;
        (4) the costs associated with background investigations and 
    reinvestigations for contract personnel;
        (5) costs associated with continuous evaluation initiatives 
    monitoring for personnel for whom a background investigation or 
    reinvestigation was conducted, other than costs associated with 
    adjudication;
        (6) the average cost per person for each type of background 
    investigation; and
        (7) a summary of transfers and reprogrammings that were 
    executed to support the processing of security clearances.

                 TITLE LXVII--REPORTS AND OTHER MATTERS
    Subtitle A--Matters Relating to Russia and Other Foreign Powers

SEC. 6701. LIMITATION RELATING TO ESTABLISHMENT OR SUPPORT OF 
CYBERSECURITY UNIT WITH THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.
    (a) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional intelligence committees;
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
    Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives; and
        (3) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
    Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
    (b) Limitation.--
        (1) In general.--No amount may be expended by the Federal 
    Government, other than the Department of Defense, to enter into or 
    implement any bilateral agreement between the United States and the 
    Russian Federation regarding cybersecurity, including the 
    establishment or support of any cybersecurity unit, unless, at 
    least 30 days prior to the conclusion of any such agreement, the 
    Director of National Intelligence submits to the appropriate 
    congressional committees a report on such agreement that includes 
    the elements required by subsection (c).
        (2) Department of defense agreements.--Any agreement between 
    the Department of Defense and the Russian Federation regarding 
    cybersecurity shall be conducted in accordance with section 1232 of 
    the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public 
    Law 114-328), as amended by section 1231 of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91).
    (c) Elements.--If the Director submits a report under subsection 
(b) with respect to an agreement, such report shall include a 
discussion of each of the following:
        (1) The purpose of the agreement.
        (2) The nature of any intelligence to be shared pursuant to the 
    agreement.
        (3) The expected value to national security resulting from the 
    implementation of the agreement.
        (4) Such counterintelligence concerns associated with the 
    agreement as the Director may have and such measures as the 
    Director expects to be taken to mitigate such concerns.
    (d) Rule of Construction.--This section shall not be construed to 
affect any existing authority of the Director of National Intelligence, 
the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, or another head of an 
element of the intelligence community, to share or receive foreign 
intelligence on a case-by-case basis.
SEC. 6702. ASSESSMENT OF THREAT FINANCE RELATING TO RUSSIA.
    (a) Threat Finance Defined.--In this section, the term ``threat 
finance'' means--
        (1) the financing of cyber operations, global influence 
    campaigns, intelligence service activities, proliferation, 
    terrorism, or transnational crime and drug organizations;
        (2) the methods and entities used to spend, store, move, raise, 
    conceal, or launder money or value, on behalf of threat actors;
        (3) sanctions evasion; and
        (4) other forms of threat finance activity domestically or 
    internationally, as defined by the President.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
coordination with the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for 
Intelligence and Analysis, shall submit to the congressional 
intelligence committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House 
of Representatives, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
Senate a report containing an assessment of Russian threat finance. The 
assessment shall be based on intelligence from all sources, including 
from the Office of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence of the 
Department of the Treasury.
    (c) Elements.--The report required by subsection (b) shall include 
each of the following:
        (1) A summary of leading examples from the 3-year period 
    preceding the date of the submittal of the report of threat finance 
    activities conducted by, for the benefit of, or at the behest of--
            (A) officials of the Government of Russia;
            (B) persons subject to sanctions under any provision of law 
        imposing sanctions with respect to Russia;
            (C) Russian nationals subject to sanctions under any other 
        provision of law; or
            (D) Russian oligarchs or organized criminals.
        (2) An assessment with respect to any trends or patterns in 
    threat finance activities relating to Russia, including common 
    methods of conducting such activities and global nodes of money 
    laundering used by Russian threat actors described in paragraph (1) 
    and associated entities.
        (3) An assessment of any connections between Russian 
    individuals involved in money laundering and the Government of 
    Russia.
        (4) A summary of engagement and coordination with international 
    partners on threat finance relating to Russia, especially in 
    Europe, including examples of such engagement and coordination.
        (5) An identification of any resource and collection gaps.
        (6) An identification of--
            (A) entry points of money laundering by Russian and 
        associated entities into the United States;
            (B) any vulnerabilities within the United States legal and 
        financial system, including specific sectors, which have been 
        or could be exploited in connection with Russian threat finance 
        activities; and
            (C) the counterintelligence threat posed by Russian money 
        laundering and other forms of threat finance, as well as the 
        threat to the United States financial system and United States 
        efforts to enforce sanctions and combat organized crime.
        (7) Any other matters the Director determines appropriate.
    (d) Form of Report.--The report required under subsection (b) may 
be submitted in classified form.
SEC. 6703. NOTIFICATION OF AN ACTIVE MEASURES CAMPAIGN.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the congressional intelligence committees;
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives; 
        and
            (C) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
        the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives.
        (2) Congressional leadership.--The term ``congressional 
    leadership'' includes the following:
            (A) The majority leader of the Senate.
            (B) The minority leader of the Senate.
            (C) The Speaker of the House of Representatives.
            (D) The minority leader of the House of Representatives.
    (b) Requirement for Notification.--The Director of National 
Intelligence, in cooperation with the Director of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation and the head of any other relevant agency, shall notify 
the congressional leadership and the chairman and vice chairman or 
ranking member of each of the appropriate congressional committees, and 
of other relevant committees of jurisdiction, each time the Director of 
National Intelligence determines there is credible information that a 
foreign power has, is, or will attempt to employ a covert influence or 
active measures campaign with regard to the modernization, employment, 
doctrine, or force posture of the nuclear deterrent or missile defense.
    (c) Content of Notification.--Each notification required by 
subsection (b) shall include information concerning actions taken by 
the United States to expose or halt an attempt referred to in 
subsection (b).
SEC. 6704. NOTIFICATION OF TRAVEL BY ACCREDITED DIPLOMATIC AND CONSULAR 
PERSONNEL OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION IN THE UNITED STATES.
    In carrying out the advance notification requirements set out in 
section 502 of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
(division N of Public Law 115-31; 131 Stat. 825; 22 U.S.C. 254a note), 
the Secretary of State shall--
        (1) ensure that the Russian Federation provides notification to 
    the Secretary of State at least 2 business days in advance of all 
    travel that is subject to such requirements by accredited 
    diplomatic and consular personnel of the Russian Federation in the 
    United States, and take necessary action to secure full compliance 
    by Russian personnel and address any noncompliance; and
        (2) provide notice of travel described in paragraph (1) to the 
    Director of National Intelligence and the Director of the Federal 
    Bureau of Investigation within 1 hour of receiving notice of such 
    travel.
SEC. 6705. REPORT AND ANNUAL BRIEFING ON IRANIAN EXPENDITURES 
SUPPORTING FOREIGN MILITARY AND TERRORIST ACTIVITIES.
    (a) Report.--
        (1) Report required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence 
    shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report, 
    and not less frequently than once each year thereafter provide a 
    briefing to Congress, describing Iranian expenditures in the 
    previous calendar year on military and terrorist activities outside 
    the country, including each of the following:
            (A) The amount spent in such calendar year on activities by 
        the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, including activities 
        providing support for--
                (i) Hizballah;
                (ii) Houthi rebels in Yemen;
                (iii) Hamas;
                (iv) proxy forces in Iraq and Syria; or
                (v) any other entity or country the Director determines 
            to be relevant.
            (B) The amount spent in such calendar year for ballistic 
        missile research and testing or other activities that the 
        Director determines are destabilizing to the Middle East 
        region.
        (2) Form.--The report required under subsection (a) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (b) Annual Briefing.--Following the submission of the report under 
subsection (a), the Director shall annually provide a briefing to the 
congressional intelligence committees on the information described in 
such subsection.
SEC. 6706. EXPANSION OF SCOPE OF COMMITTEE TO COUNTER ACTIVE MEASURES.
    (a) Scope of Committee to Counter Active Measures.--Section 501 of 
the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 
115-31; 50 U.S.C. 3001 note) is amended--
        (1) in subsections (a) through (h)--
            (A) by inserting ``, the People's Republic of China, the 
        Islamic Republic of Iran, the Democratic People's Republic of 
        Korea, or other nation state'' after ``Russian Federation'' 
        each place it appears; and
            (B) by inserting ``, China, Iran, North Korea, or other 
        nation state'' after ``Russia'' each place it appears; and
        (2) in the section heading, by inserting ``, the people's 
    republic of china, the islamic republic of iran, the democratic 
    people's republic of korea, or other nation state'' after ``russian 
    federation''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
such Act is amended by striking the item relating to section 501 and 
inserting the following new item:

``Sec. 501. Committee to counter active measures by the Russian 
          Federation, the People's Republic of China, the Islamic 
          Republic of Iran, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, 
          and other nation states to exert covert influence over peoples 
          and governments.''.

                          Subtitle B--Reports

SEC. 6711. TECHNICAL CORRECTION TO INSPECTOR GENERAL STUDY.
    Section 11001(d) of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Audit'' and 
    inserting ``Review'';
        (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``audit'' and inserting 
    ``review''; and
        (3) in paragraph (2), by striking ``audit'' and inserting 
    ``review''.
SEC. 6712. REPORTS ON AUTHORITIES OF THE CHIEF INTELLIGENCE OFFICER OF 
THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term ``appropriate 
    committees of Congress'' means--
            (A) the congressional intelligence committees;
            (B) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
        Affairs of the Senate; and
            (C) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
        Representatives.
        (2) Homeland security intelligence enterprise.--The term 
    ``Homeland Security Intelligence Enterprise'' has the meaning given 
    such term in Department of Homeland Security Instruction Number 
    264-01-001, or successor authority.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in 
consultation with the Under Secretary of Homeland Security for 
Intelligence and Analysis, shall submit to the appropriate committees 
of Congress a report on the authorities of the Under Secretary.
    (c) Elements.--The report required by subsection (b) shall include 
each of the following:
        (1) An analysis of whether the Under Secretary has the legal 
    and policy authority necessary to organize and lead the Homeland 
    Security Intelligence Enterprise, with respect to intelligence, 
    and, if not, a description of--
            (A) the obstacles to exercising the authorities of the 
        Chief Intelligence Officer of the Department and the Homeland 
        Security Intelligence Council, of which the Chief Intelligence 
        Officer is the chair; and
            (B) the legal and policy changes necessary to effectively 
        coordinate, organize, and lead intelligence activities of the 
        Department of Homeland Security.
        (2) A description of the actions that the Secretary has taken 
    to address the inability of the Under Secretary to require 
    components of the Department, other than the Office of Intelligence 
    and Analysis of the Department to--
            (A) coordinate intelligence programs; and
            (B) integrate and standardize intelligence products 
        produced by such other components.
SEC. 6713. REVIEW OF INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY WHISTLEBLOWER MATTERS.
    (a) Review of Whistleblower Matters.--The Inspector General of the 
Intelligence Community, in consultation with the inspectors general for 
the Central Intelligence Agency, the National Security Agency, the 
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, the Defense Intelligence 
Agency, and the National Reconnaissance Office, shall conduct a review 
of the authorities, policies, investigatory standards, and other 
practices and procedures relating to intelligence community 
whistleblower matters, with respect to such inspectors general.
    (b) Objective of Review.--The objective of the review required 
under subsection (a) is to identify any discrepancies, inconsistencies, 
or other issues, which frustrate the timely and effective reporting of 
intelligence community whistleblower matters to appropriate inspectors 
general and to the congressional intelligence committees, and the fair 
and expeditious investigation and resolution of such matters.
    (c) Conduct of Review.--The Inspector General of the Intelligence 
Community shall take such measures as the Inspector General determines 
necessary in order to ensure that the review required by subsection (a) 
is conducted in an independent and objective fashion.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the Intelligence 
Community shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a 
written report containing the results of the review required under 
subsection (a), along with recommendations to improve the timely and 
effective reporting of intelligence community whistleblower matters to 
inspectors general and to the congressional intelligence committees and 
the fair and expeditious investigation and resolution of such matters.
SEC. 6714. REPORT ON ROLE OF DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE WITH 
RESPECT TO CERTAIN FOREIGN INVESTMENTS.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
consultation with the heads of the elements of the intelligence 
community determined appropriate by the Director, shall submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees a report on the role of the 
Director in preparing analytic materials in connection with the 
evaluation by the Federal Government of national security risks 
associated with potential foreign investments into the United States.
    (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall include--
        (1) a description of the current process for the provision of 
    the analytic materials described in subsection (a);
        (2) an identification of the most significant benefits and 
    drawbacks of such process with respect to the role of the Director, 
    including the sufficiency of resources and personnel to prepare 
    such materials; and
        (3) recommendations to improve such process.
SEC. 6715. REPORT ON SURVEILLANCE BY FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS AGAINST UNITED 
STATES TELECOMMUNICATIONS NETWORKS.
    (a) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
        (1) The congressional intelligence committees.
        (2) The Committee on the Judiciary and the Committee on 
    Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
        (3) The Committee on the Judiciary and the Committee on 
    Homeland Security of the House of Representatives.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall, in 
coordination with the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, the 
Director of the National Security Agency, the Director of the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, submit 
to the appropriate congressional committees a report describing--
        (1) any attempts known to the intelligence community by foreign 
    governments to exploit cybersecurity vulnerabilities in United 
    States telecommunications networks (including Signaling System No. 
    7) to target for surveillance United States persons, including 
    employees of the Federal Government; and
        (2) any actions, as of the date of the enactment of this Act, 
    taken by the intelligence community to protect agencies and 
    personnel of the United States Government from surveillance 
    conducted by foreign governments.
SEC. 6716. BIENNIAL REPORT ON FOREIGN INVESTMENT RISKS.
    (a) Intelligence Community Interagency Working Group.--
        (1) Requirement to establish.--The Director of National 
    Intelligence shall establish an intelligence community interagency 
    working group to prepare the biennial reports required by 
    subsection (b).
        (2) Chairperson.--The Director of National Intelligence shall 
    serve as the chairperson of such interagency working group.
        (3) Membership.--Such interagency working group shall be 
    composed of representatives of each element of the intelligence 
    community that the Director of National Intelligence determines 
    appropriate.
    (b) Biennial Report on Foreign Investment Risks.--
        (1) Report required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act and not less frequently than once every 2 
    years thereafter, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
    submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on 
    foreign investment risks prepared by the interagency working group 
    established under subsection (a).
        (2) Elements.--Each report required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include identification, analysis, and explanation of the following:
            (A) Any current or projected major threats to the national 
        security of the United States with respect to foreign 
        investment.
            (B) Any strategy used by a foreign country that such 
        interagency working group has identified to be a country of 
        special concern to use foreign investment to target the 
        acquisition of critical technologies, critical materials, or 
        critical infrastructure.
            (C) Any economic espionage efforts directed at the United 
        States by a foreign country, particularly such a country of 
        special concern.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional intelligence committees;
        (2) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
    and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
        (3) the Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on 
    Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 6717. MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN REPORTING REQUIREMENT ON TRAVEL OF 
FOREIGN DIPLOMATS.
    Section 502(d)(2) of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2017 (Public Law 115-31) is amended by striking ``the number'' and 
inserting ``a best estimate''.
SEC. 6718. SEMIANNUAL REPORTS ON INVESTIGATIONS OF UNAUTHORIZED 
DISCLOSURES OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.
    (a) In General.--Title XI of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3231 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
section:
``SEC. 1105. SEMIANNUAL REPORTS ON INVESTIGATIONS OF UNAUTHORIZED 
DISCLOSURES OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.
    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) Covered official.--The term `covered official' means--
            ``(A) the heads of each element of the intelligence 
        community; and
            ``(B) the inspectors general with oversight responsibility 
        for an element of the intelligence community.
        ``(2) Investigation.--The term `investigation' means any 
    inquiry, whether formal or informal, into the existence of an 
    unauthorized public disclosure of classified information.
        ``(3) Unauthorized disclosure of classified information.--The 
    term `unauthorized disclosure of classified information' means any 
    unauthorized disclosure of classified information to any recipient.
        ``(4) Unauthorized public disclosure of classified 
    information.--The term `unauthorized public disclosure of 
    classified information' means the unauthorized disclosure of 
    classified information to a journalist or media organization.
    ``(b) Intelligence Community Reporting.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not less frequently than once every 6 
    months, each covered official shall submit to the congressional 
    intelligence committees a report on investigations of unauthorized 
    public disclosures of classified information.
        ``(2) Elements.--Each report submitted under paragraph (1) 
    shall include, with respect to the preceding 6-month period, the 
    following:
            ``(A) The number of investigations opened by the covered 
        official regarding an unauthorized public disclosure of 
        classified information.
            ``(B) The number of investigations completed by the covered 
        official regarding an unauthorized public disclosure of 
        classified information.
            ``(C) Of the number of such completed investigations 
        identified under subparagraph (B), the number referred to the 
        Attorney General for criminal investigation.
    ``(c) Department of Justice Reporting.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not less frequently than once every 6 
    months, the Assistant Attorney General for National Security of the 
    Department of Justice, in consultation with the Director of the 
    Federal Bureau of Investigation, shall submit to the congressional 
    intelligence committees, the Committee on the Judiciary of the 
    Senate, and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of 
    Representatives a report on the status of each referral made to the 
    Department of Justice from any element of the intelligence 
    community regarding an unauthorized disclosure of classified 
    information made during the most recent 365-day period or any 
    referral that has not yet been closed, regardless of the date the 
    referral was made.
        ``(2) Contents.--Each report submitted under paragraph (1) 
    shall include, for each referral covered by the report, at a 
    minimum, the following:
            ``(A) The date the referral was received.
            ``(B) A statement indicating whether the alleged 
        unauthorized disclosure described in the referral was 
        substantiated by the Department of Justice.
            ``(C) A statement indicating the highest level of 
        classification of the information that was revealed in the 
        unauthorized disclosure.
            ``(D) A statement indicating whether an open criminal 
        investigation related to the referral is active.
            ``(E) A statement indicating whether any criminal charges 
        have been filed related to the referral.
            ``(F) A statement indicating whether the Department of 
        Justice has been able to attribute the unauthorized disclosure 
        to a particular entity or individual.
    ``(d) Form of Reports.--Each report submitted under this section 
shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may have a classified 
annex.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in the first section 
of the National Security Act of 1947 is amended by inserting after the 
item relating to section 1104 the following new item:

``Sec. 1105. Semiannual reports on investigations of unauthorized 
          disclosures of classified information.''.
SEC. 6719. CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION OF DESIGNATION OF COVERED 
INTELLIGENCE OFFICER AS PERSONA NON GRATA.
    (a) Covered Intelligence Officer Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``covered intelligence officer'' means--
        (1) a United States intelligence officer serving in a post in a 
    foreign country; or
        (2) a known or suspected foreign intelligence officer serving 
    in a United States post.
    (b) Requirement for Reports.--Not later than 72 hours after a 
covered intelligence officer is designated as a persona non grata, the 
Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the Secretary 
of State, shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees, 
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, and the Committee on 
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a notification of that 
designation. Each such notification shall include--
        (1) the date of the designation;
        (2) the basis for the designation; and
        (3) a justification for the expulsion.
SEC. 6720. REPORTS ON INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION IN 
VULNERABILITIES EQUITIES PROCESS OF FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Vulnerabilities equities policy and process document.--The 
    term ``Vulnerabilities Equities Policy and Process document'' means 
    the executive branch document entitled ``Vulnerabilities Equities 
    Policy and Process'' dated November 15, 2017.
        (2) Vulnerabilities equities process.--The term 
    ``Vulnerabilities Equities Process'' means the interagency review 
    of vulnerabilities, pursuant to the Vulnerabilities Equities Policy 
    and Process document or any successor document.
        (3) Vulnerability.--The term ``vulnerability'' means a weakness 
    in an information system or its components (for example, system 
    security procedures, hardware design, and internal controls) that 
    could be exploited or could affect confidentiality, integrity, or 
    availability of information.
    (b) Reports on Process and Criteria Under Vulnerabilities Equities 
Policy and Process.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
    submit to the congressional intelligence committees a written 
    report describing--
            (A) with respect to each element of the intelligence 
        community--
                (i) the title of the official or officials responsible 
            for determining whether, pursuant to criteria contained in 
            the Vulnerabilities Equities Policy and Process document or 
            any successor document, a vulnerability must be submitted 
            for review under the Vulnerabilities Equities Process; and
                (ii) the process used by such element to make such 
            determination; and
            (B) the roles or responsibilities of that element during a 
        review of a vulnerability submitted to the Vulnerabilities 
        Equities Process.
        (2) Changes to process or criteria.--Not later than 30 days 
    after any significant change is made to the process and criteria 
    used by any element of the intelligence community for determining 
    whether to submit a vulnerability for review under the 
    Vulnerabilities Equities Process, such element shall submit to the 
    congressional intelligence committees a report describing such 
    change.
        (3) Form of reports.--Each report submitted under this 
    subsection shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include 
    a classified annex.
    (c) Annual Reports.--
        (1) In general.--Not less frequently than once each calendar 
    year, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the 
    congressional intelligence committees a classified report 
    containing, with respect to the previous year--
            (A) the number of vulnerabilities submitted for review 
        under the Vulnerabilities Equities Process;
            (B) the number of vulnerabilities described in subparagraph 
        (A) disclosed to each vendor responsible for correcting the 
        vulnerability, or to the public, pursuant to the 
        Vulnerabilities Equities Process; and
            (C) the aggregate number, by category, of the 
        vulnerabilities excluded from review under the Vulnerabilities 
        Equities Process, as described in paragraph 5.4 of the 
        Vulnerabilities Equities Policy and Process document.
        (2) Unclassified information.--Each report submitted under 
    paragraph (1) shall include an unclassified appendix that 
    contains--
            (A) the aggregate number of vulnerabilities disclosed to 
        vendors or the public pursuant to the Vulnerabilities Equities 
        Process; and
            (B) the aggregate number of vulnerabilities disclosed to 
        vendors or the public pursuant to the Vulnerabilities Equities 
        Process known to have been patched.
        (3) Nonduplication.--The Director of National Intelligence may 
    forgo submission of an annual report required under this subsection 
    for a calendar year, if the Director notifies the intelligence 
    committees in writing that, with respect to the same calendar year, 
    an annual report required by paragraph 4.3 of the Vulnerabilities 
    Equities Policy and Process document already has been submitted to 
    Congress, and such annual report contains the information that 
    would otherwise be required to be included in an annual report 
    under this subsection.
SEC. 6721. INSPECTORS GENERAL REPORTS ON CLASSIFICATION.
    (a) Reports Required.--Not less than once per year in each of the 
three fiscal years immediately following the date of the enactment of 
this Act, each Inspector General listed in subsection (b) shall submit 
to the congressional intelligence committees a report that includes, 
with respect to the department or agency of the Inspector General, 
analyses of the following with respect to the prior fiscal year:
        (1) The accuracy of the application of classification and 
    handling markers on a representative sample of finished reports, 
    including such reports that are compartmented.
        (2) Compliance with declassification procedures.
        (3) The effectiveness of processes for identifying topics of 
    public or historical importance that merit prioritization for a 
    declassification review.
    (b) Inspectors General Listed.--The Inspectors General listed in 
this subsection are as follows:
        (1) The Inspector General of the Intelligence Community.
        (2) The Inspector General of the Central Intelligence Agency.
        (3) The Inspector General of the National Security Agency.
        (4) The Inspector General of the Defense Intelligence Agency.
        (5) The Inspector General of the National Reconnaissance 
    Office.
        (6) The Inspector General of the National Geospatial-
    Intelligence Agency.
SEC. 6722. REPORTS AND BRIEFINGS ON NATIONAL SECURITY EFFECTS OF GLOBAL 
WATER INSECURITY AND EMERGING INFECTIOUS DISEASE AND PANDEMICS.
    (a) Global Water Insecurity.--
        (1) Report.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Director of National 
        Intelligence shall submit to the congressional intelligence 
        committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
        Senate a report on the implications of water insecurity on the 
        national security interests of the United States, including 
        consideration of social, economic, agricultural, and 
        environmental factors.
            (B) Assessment scope and focus.--The report submitted under 
        subparagraph (A) shall include an assessment of water 
        insecurity described in such subsection with a global scope, 
        but focus on areas of the world--
                (i) of strategic, economic, or humanitarian interest to 
            the United States--

                    (I) that are, as of the date of the report, at the 
                greatest risk of instability, conflict, human 
                insecurity, or mass displacement; or
                    (II) where challenges relating to water insecurity 
                are likely to emerge and become significant during the 
                5-year or the 20-year period beginning on the date of 
                the report; and

                (ii) where challenges relating to water insecurity are 
            likely to imperil the national security interests of the 
            United States or allies of the United States.
            (C) Consultation.--In researching the report required by 
        subparagraph (A), the Director shall consult with--
                (i) such stakeholders within the intelligence 
            community, the Department of Defense, and the Department of 
            State as the Director considers appropriate; and
                (ii) such additional Federal agencies and persons in 
            the private sector as the Director considers appropriate.
            (D) Form.--The report submitted under subparagraph (A) 
        shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
        classified annex.
        (2) Quinquennial briefings.--Beginning on the date that is 5 
    years after the date on which the Director submits the report under 
    paragraph (1), and every 5 years thereafter, the Director shall 
    provide to the committees specified in such paragraph a briefing 
    that updates the matters contained in the report.
    (b) Emerging Infectious Disease and Pandemics.--
        (1) Report.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Director of National 
        Intelligence shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
        committees a report on the anticipated geopolitical effects of 
        emerging infectious disease (including deliberate, accidental, 
        and naturally occurring infectious disease threats) and 
        pandemics, and their implications on the national security of 
        the United States.
            (B) Contents.--The report under subparagraph (A) shall 
        include an assessment of--
                (i) the economic, social, political, and security 
            risks, costs, and impacts of emerging infectious diseases 
            on the United States and the international political and 
            economic system;
                (ii) the economic, social, political, and security 
            risks, costs, and impacts of a major transnational pandemic 
            on the United States and the international political and 
            economic system; and
                (iii) contributing trends and factors to the matters 
            assessed under clauses (i) and (ii).
            (C) Examination of response capacity.--In examining the 
        risks, costs, and impacts of emerging infectious disease and a 
        possible transnational pandemic under subparagraph (B), the 
        Director of National Intelligence shall also examine in the 
        report under subparagraph (A) the response capacity within 
        affected countries and the international system. In considering 
        response capacity, the Director shall include--
                (i) the ability of affected nations to effectively 
            detect and manage emerging infectious diseases and a 
            possible transnational pandemic;
                (ii) the role and capacity of international 
            organizations and nongovernmental organizations to respond 
            to emerging infectious disease and a possible pandemic, and 
            their ability to coordinate with affected and donor 
            nations; and
                (iii) the effectiveness of current international 
            frameworks, agreements, and health systems to respond to 
            emerging infectious diseases and a possible transnational 
            pandemic.
        (2) Quinquennial briefings.--Beginning on the date that is 5 
    years after the date on which the Director submits the report under 
    paragraph (1), and every 5 years thereafter, the Director shall 
    provide to the congressional intelligence committees a briefing 
    that updates the matters contained in the report.
        (3) Form.--The report under paragraph (1) and the briefings 
    under paragraph (2) may be classified.
        (4) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
    subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
    means--
            (A) the congressional intelligence committees;
            (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
        Armed Services, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and the 
        Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives; 
        and
            (C) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
        Armed Services, the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
        Pensions, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
SEC. 6723. ANNUAL REPORT ON MEMORANDA OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN ELEMENTS 
OF INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY AND OTHER ENTITIES OF THE UNITED STATES 
GOVERNMENT REGARDING SIGNIFICANT OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES OR POLICY.
    Section 311 of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2017 (50 U.S.C. 3313) is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
        (2) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following:
    ``(a) In General.--Each year, concurrent with the annual budget 
request submitted by the President to Congress under section 1105 of 
title 31, United States Code, each head of an element of the 
intelligence community shall submit to the congressional intelligence 
committees a report that lists each memorandum of understanding or 
other agreement regarding significant operational activities or policy 
entered into during the most recently completed fiscal year between or 
among such element and any other entity of the United States 
Government.
    ``(b) Provision of Documents.--Each head of an element of an 
intelligence community who receives a request from the Select Committee 
on Intelligence of the Senate or the Permanent Select Committee on 
Intelligence of the House of Representatives for a copy of a memorandum 
of understanding or other document listed in a report submitted by the 
head under subsection (a) shall submit to such committee the requested 
copy as soon as practicable after receiving such request.''.
SEC. 6724. STUDY ON THE FEASIBILITY OF ENCRYPTING UNCLASSIFIED WIRELINE 
AND WIRELESS TELEPHONE CALLS.
    (a) Study Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
complete and submit to the congressional intelligence committees a 
study on the feasibility of encrypting unclassified wireline and 
wireless telephone calls between personnel in the intelligence 
community.
    (b) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the date on which the 
Director submits the study required by subsection (a), the Director 
shall provide to the congressional intelligence committees a briefing 
on the Director's findings with respect to such study.
SEC. 6725. REPORTS ON INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY LOAN REPAYMENT AND RELATED 
PROGRAMS.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) there should be established, through the issuing of an 
    Intelligence Community Directive or otherwise, an intelligence-
    community-wide program for student loan repayment, student loan 
    forgiveness, financial counseling, and related matters, for 
    employees of the intelligence community;
        (2) creating such a program would enhance the ability of the 
    elements of the intelligence community to recruit, hire, and retain 
    highly qualified personnel, including with respect to mission-
    critical and hard-to-fill positions;
        (3) such a program, including with respect to eligibility 
    requirements, should be designed so as to maximize the ability of 
    the elements of the intelligence community to recruit, hire, and 
    retain highly qualified personnel, including with respect to 
    mission-critical and hard-to-fill positions; and
        (4) to the extent possible, such a program should be uniform 
    throughout the intelligence community and publicly promoted by each 
    element of the intelligence community to both current employees of 
    the element as well as to prospective employees of the element.
    (b) Report on Potential Intelligence Community-Wide Program.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
    cooperation with the heads of the elements of the intelligence 
    community and the heads of any other appropriate department or 
    agency of the Federal Government, shall submit to the congressional 
    intelligence committees a report on potentially establishing and 
    carrying out an intelligence-community-wide program for student 
    loan repayment, student loan forgiveness, financial counseling, and 
    related matters, as described in subsection (a).
        (2) Matters included.--The report under paragraph (1) shall 
    include, at a minimum, the following:
            (A) A description of the financial resources that the 
        elements of the intelligence community would require to 
        establish and initially carry out the program specified in 
        paragraph (1).
            (B) A description of the practical steps to establish and 
        carry out such a program.
            (C) The identification of any legislative action the 
        Director determines necessary to establish and carry out such a 
        program.
    (c) Annual Reports on Established Programs.--
        (1) Covered programs defined.--In this subsection, the term 
    ``covered programs'' means any loan repayment program, loan 
    forgiveness program, financial counseling program, or similar 
    program, established pursuant to title X of the National Security 
    Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3191 et seq.) or any other provision of law 
    that may be administered or used by an element of the intelligence 
    community.
        (2) Annual reports required.--Not less frequently than once 
    each year, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to 
    the congressional intelligence committees a report on the covered 
    programs. Each such report shall include, with respect to the 
    period covered by the report, the following:
            (A) The number of personnel from each element of the 
        intelligence community who used each covered program.
            (B) The total amount of funds each element expended for 
        each such program.
            (C) A description of the efforts made by each element to 
        promote each covered program pursuant to both the personnel of 
        the element of the intelligence community and to prospective 
        personnel.
SEC. 6726. REPEAL OF CERTAIN REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
    (a) Correcting Long-Standing Material Weaknesses.--Section 368 of 
the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 
110-259; 50 U.S.C. 3051 note) is hereby repealed.
    (b) Interagency Threat Assessment and Coordination Group.--Section 
210D of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 124k) is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (c); and
        (2) by redesignating subsections (d) through (i) as subsections 
    (c) through (h), respectively; and
        (3) in subsection (c), as so redesignated--
            (A) in paragraph (8), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        period; and
            (B) by striking paragraph (9).
    (c) Inspector General Report.--Section 8H of the Inspector General 
Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (g); and
        (2) by redesignating subsections (h) and (i) as subsections (g) 
    and (h), respectively.
SEC. 6727. INSPECTOR GENERAL OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY REPORT ON 
SENIOR EXECUTIVES OF THE OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL 
INTELLIGENCE.
    (a) Senior Executive Service Position Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``Senior Executive Service position'' has the meaning given 
that term in section 3132(a)(2) of title 5, United States Code, and 
includes any position above the GS-15, step 10, level of the General 
Schedule under section 5332 of such title.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community shall 
submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on the 
number of Senior Executive Service positions in the Office of the 
Director of National Intelligence.
    (c) Matters Included.--The report under subsection (b) shall 
include the following:
        (1) The number of required Senior Executive Service positions 
    for the Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
        (2) Whether such requirements are reasonably based on the 
    mission of the Office.
        (3) A discussion of how the number of the Senior Executive 
    Service positions in the Office compare to the number of senior 
    positions at comparable organizations.
    (d) Cooperation.--The Director of National Intelligence shall 
provide to the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community any 
information requested by the Inspector General of the Intelligence 
Community that is necessary to carry out this section by not later than 
14 calendar days after the date on which the Inspector General of the 
Intelligence Community makes such request.
SEC. 6728. BRIEFING ON FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION OFFERING 
PERMANENT RESIDENCE TO SOURCES AND COOPERATORS.
    Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall provide to 
the congressional intelligence committees a briefing on the ability of 
the Federal Bureau of Investigation to offer, as an inducement to 
assisting the Bureau, permanent residence within the United States to 
foreign individuals who are sources or cooperators in 
counterintelligence or other national-security-related investigations. 
The briefing shall address the following:
        (1) The extent to which the Bureau may make such offers, 
    whether independently or in conjunction with other agencies and 
    departments of the United States Government, including a discussion 
    of the authorities provided by section 101(a)(15)(S) of the 
    Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(S)), section 
    7 of the Central Intelligence Agency Act (50 U.S.C. 3508), and any 
    other provision of law under which the Bureau may make such offers.
        (2) An overview of the policies and operational practices of 
    the Bureau with respect to making such offers.
        (3) The sufficiency of such policies and practices with respect 
    to inducing individuals to cooperate with, serve as sources for 
    such investigations, or both.
        (4) Whether the Director recommends any legislative actions to 
    improve such policies and practices, particularly with respect to 
    the counterintelligence efforts of the Bureau.
SEC. 6729. INTELLIGENCE ASSESSMENT OF NORTH KOREA REVENUE SOURCES.
    (a) Assessment Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
coordination with the Assistant Secretary of State for Intelligence and 
Research and the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Intelligence 
and Analysis, shall produce an intelligence assessment of the revenue 
sources of the North Korean regime. Such assessment shall include 
revenue from the following sources:
        (1) Trade in coal, iron, and iron ore.
        (2) The provision of fishing rights to North Korean territorial 
    waters.
        (3) Trade in gold, titanium ore, vanadium ore, copper, silver, 
    nickel, zinc, or rare earth minerals, and other stores of value.
        (4) Trade in textiles.
        (5) Sales of conventional defense articles and services.
        (6) Sales of controlled goods, ballistic missiles, and other 
    associated items.
        (7) Other types of manufacturing for export, as the Director of 
    National Intelligence considers appropriate.
        (8) The exportation of workers from North Korea in a manner 
    intended to generate significant revenue, directly or indirectly, 
    for use by the government of North Korea.
        (9) The provision of nonhumanitarian goods (such as food, 
    medicine, and medical devices) and services by other countries.
        (10) The provision of services, including banking and other 
    support, including by entities located in the Russian Federation, 
    China, and Iran.
        (11) Online commercial activities of the Government of North 
    Korea, including online gambling.
        (12) Criminal activities, including cyber-enabled crime and 
    counterfeit goods.
    (b) Elements.--The assessment required under subsection (a) shall 
include an identification of each of the following:
        (1) The sources of North Korea's funding.
        (2) Financial and nonfinancial networks, including supply chain 
    management, transportation, and facilitation, through which North 
    Korea accesses the United States and international financial 
    systems and repatriates and exports capital, goods, and services; 
    and
        (3) the global financial institutions, money services business, 
    and payment systems that assist North Korea with financial 
    transactions.
    (c) Submittal to Congress.--Upon completion of the assessment 
required under subsection (a), the Director of National Intelligence 
shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees, the 
Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the 
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a copy of such assessment.
SEC. 6730. REPORT ON POSSIBLE EXPLOITATION OF VIRTUAL CURRENCIES BY 
TERRORIST ACTORS.
    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Stop Terrorist 
Use of Virtual Currencies Act''.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in consultation 
with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Under Secretary of Homeland 
Security for Intelligence and Analysis, shall submit to Congress a 
report on the possible exploitation of virtual currencies by terrorist 
actors. Such report shall include the following elements:
        (1) An assessment of the means and methods by which 
    international terrorist organizations and State sponsors of 
    terrorism use virtual currencies.
        (2) An assessment of the use by terrorist organizations and 
    state sponsors of terrorism of virtual currencies compared to the 
    use by such organizations and states of other forms of financing to 
    support operations, including an assessment of the collection 
    posture of the intelligence community on the use of virtual 
    currencies by such organizations and states.
        (3) A description of any existing legal impediments that 
    inhibit or prevent the intelligence community from collecting 
    information on or helping prevent the use of virtual currencies by 
    international terrorist organizations and state sponsors of 
    terrorism and an identification of any gaps in existing law that 
    could be exploited for illicit funding by such organizations and 
    States.
    (c) Form of Report.--The report required by subsection (b) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Dissemination to State and Local Partners.--Consistent with the 
protection of classified and confidential unclassified information, the 
Under Secretary shall share the report required by subsection (b) with 
State, local, and regional officials who operate within State, local, 
and regional fusion centers through the Department of Homeland Security 
State, Local, and Regional Fusion Center Initiative established in 
section 210A of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 124h).

                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

SEC. 6741. PUBLIC INTEREST DECLASSIFICATION BOARD.
    (a) Meetings.--Section 703(e) of the Public Interest 
Declassification Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-567; 50 U.S.C. 3161 note) 
is amended by striking ``funds.'' and inserting ``funds, but shall meet 
in person not less frequently than on a quarterly basis.''.
    (b) Removal of Sunset.--Section 710 of the Public Interest 
Declassification Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-567; 50 U.S.C. 3161 note) 
is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (b);
        (2) in the section heading, by striking ``; sunset''; and
        (3) by striking ``(a) Effective Date.--''.
    (c) Status of Board.--Notwithstanding section 710(b) of the Public 
Interest Declassification Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-567; 50 U.S.C. 
3161 note) as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of 
this Act--
        (1) the Public Interest Declassification Board shall be deemed 
    to not have terminated for purposes of the appointment of members 
    to the Board;
        (2) section 703(h) of such Act shall not apply with respect to 
    the period beginning on December 31, 2018, and ending on the day 
    before the date of the enactment of this Act; and
        (3) the length of the terms of the members serving on the Board 
    as of December 30, 2018, shall be calculated by not counting the 
    period specified in paragraph (2).
SEC. 6742. TECHNICAL AND CLERICAL AMENDMENTS TO THE NATIONAL SECURITY 
ACT OF 1947.
    (a) Table of Contents.--The table of contents at the beginning of 
the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.) is amended--
        (1) by inserting after the item relating to section 2 the 
    following new item:

``Sec. 3. Definitions.'';

        (2) by striking the item relating to section 107;
        (3) by striking the item relating to section 113B and inserting 
    the following new item:

``Sec. 113B. Special pay authority for science, technology, engineering, 
          or mathematics positions.'';

        (4) by striking the items relating to sections 202, 203, 204, 
    208, 209, 210, 211, 212, 213, and 214; and
        (5) by inserting after the item relating to section 311 the 
    following new item:

``Sec. 312. Repealing and saving provisions.''.

    (b) Other Technical Corrections.--Such Act is further amended--
        (1) in section 102A--
            (A) in subparagraph (G) of paragraph (1) of subsection (g), 
        by moving the margins of such subparagraph 2 ems to the left; 
        and
            (B) in paragraph (3) of subsection (v), by moving the 
        margins of such paragraph 2 ems to the left;
        (2) in section 106--
            (A) by inserting ``Sec. 106.'' before ``(a)'' and 
        conforming the typeface and typestyle accordingly; and
            (B) in subparagraph (I) of paragraph (2) of subsection (b), 
        by moving the margins of such subparagraph 2 ems to the left;
        (3) by striking section 107;
        (4) in section 108(c), by striking ``in both a classified and 
    an unclassified form'' and inserting ``to Congress in classified 
    form, but may include an unclassified summary'';
        (5) in section 112(c)(1), by striking ``section 103(c)(7)'' and 
    inserting ``section 102A(i)'';
        (6) by amending section 201 to read as follows:
    ``SEC. 201. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    ``Except to the extent inconsistent with the provisions of this Act 
or other provisions of law, the provisions of title 5, United States 
Code, shall be applicable to the Department of Defense.'';
        (7) in section 205, by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as 
    subsections (a) and (b), respectively;
        (8) in section 206, by striking ``(a)'';
        (9) in section 207, by striking ``(c)'';
        (10) in section 308(a), by striking ``this Act'' and inserting 
    ``sections 2, 101, 102, 103, and 303 of this Act'';
        (11) by redesignating section 411 as section 312;
        (12) in section 503--
            (A) in paragraph (5) of subsection (c)--
                (i) by moving the margins of such paragraph 4 ems to 
            the left; and
                (ii) by moving the margins of subparagraph (B) of such 
            paragraph 2 ems to the left; and
            (B) in paragraph (2) of subsection (d), by moving the 
        margins of such paragraph 2 ems to the left; and
        (13) in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of 
    section 504, by moving the margins of such subparagraph 2 ems to 
    the right.
SEC. 6743. BUG BOUNTY PROGRAMS.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term ``appropriate 
    committees of Congress'' means--
            (A) the congressional intelligence committees;
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
            (C) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Homeland Security of the House of Representatives.
        (2) Bug bounty program.--The term ``bug bounty program'' means 
    a program under which an approved computer security specialist or 
    security researcher is temporarily authorized to identify and 
    report vulnerabilities within the information system of an agency 
    or department of the United States in exchange for compensation.
        (3) Information system.--The term ``information system'' has 
    the meaning given that term in section 3502 of title 44, United 
    States Code.
    (b) Bug Bounty Program Plan.--
        (1) Requirement.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in 
    consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall submit to 
    appropriate committees of Congress a strategic plan for appropriate 
    agencies and departments of the United States to implement bug 
    bounty programs.
        (2) Contents.--The plan required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include--
            (A) an assessment of--
                (i) the ``Hack the Pentagon'' pilot program carried out 
            by the Department of Defense in 2016 and subsequent bug 
            bounty programs in identifying and reporting 
            vulnerabilities within the information systems of the 
            Department of Defense; and
                (ii) private sector bug bounty programs, including such 
            programs implemented by leading technology companies in the 
            United States; and
            (B) recommendations on the feasibility of initiating bug 
        bounty programs at appropriate agencies and departments of the 
        United States.
SEC. 6744. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS RELATED TO THE DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY.
    (a) National Nuclear Security Administration Act.--Section 3233(b) 
of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2423(b)) 
is amended--
        (1) by striking ``Administration'' and inserting 
    ``Department''; and
        (2) by inserting ``Intelligence and'' after ``the Office of''.
    (b) Atomic Energy Defense Act.--Section 4524(b)(2) of the Atomic 
Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2674(b)(2)) is amended by inserting 
``Intelligence and'' after ``The Director of''.
    (c) National Security Act of 1947.--Paragraph (2) of section 106(b) 
of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3041(b)(2)) is 
amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (E), by inserting ``and 
    Counterintelligence'' after ``Office of Intelligence'';
        (2) by striking subparagraph (F); and
        (3) by redesignating subparagraphs (G), (H), and (I) as 
    subparagraphs (F), (G), and (H), respectively.
SEC. 6745. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON NOTIFICATION OF CERTAIN DISCLOSURES OF 
CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Adversary foreign government.--The term ``adversary foreign 
    government'' means the government of any of the following foreign 
    countries:
            (A) North Korea.
            (B) Iran.
            (C) China.
            (D) Russia.
            (E) Cuba.
        (2) Covered classified information.--The term ``covered 
    classified information'' means classified information that was--
            (A) collected by an element of the intelligence community; 
        or
            (B) provided by the intelligence service or military of a 
        foreign country to an element of the intelligence community.
        (3) Established intelligence channels.--The term ``established 
    intelligence channels'' means methods to exchange intelligence to 
    coordinate foreign intelligence relationships, as established 
    pursuant to law by the Director of National Intelligence, the 
    Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, the Director of the 
    National Security Agency, or other head of an element of the 
    intelligence community.
        (4) Individual in the executive branch.--The term ``individual 
    in the executive branch'' means any officer or employee of the 
    executive branch, including individuals--
            (A) occupying a position specified in article II of the 
        Constitution;
            (B) appointed to a position by an individual described in 
        subparagraph (A); or
            (C) serving in the civil service or the Senior Executive 
        Service (or similar service for senior executives of particular 
        departments or agencies).
    (b) Findings.--Congress finds that section 502 of the National 
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3092) requires elements of the 
intelligence community to keep the congressional intelligence 
committees ``fully and currently informed'' about all ``intelligence 
activities'' of the United States, and to ``furnish to the 
congressional intelligence committees any information or material 
concerning intelligence activities * * * which is requested by either 
of the congressional intelligence committees in order to carry out its 
authorized responsibilities.''.
    (c) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) section 502 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
    3092), together with other intelligence community authorities, 
    obligates an element of the intelligence community to submit to the 
    congressional intelligence committees written notification, by not 
    later than 7 days after becoming aware, that an individual in the 
    executive branch has disclosed covered classified information to an 
    official of an adversary foreign government using methods other 
    than established intelligence channels; and
        (2) each such notification should include--
            (A) the date and place of the disclosure of classified 
        information covered by the notification;
            (B) a description of such classified information;
            (C) identification of the individual who made such 
        disclosure and the individual to whom such disclosure was made; 
        and
            (D) a summary of the circumstances of such disclosure.
SEC. 6746. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON CONSIDERATION OF ESPIONAGE ACTIVITIES 
WHEN CONSIDERING WHETHER OR NOT TO PROVIDE VISAS TO FOREIGN INDIVIDUALS 
TO BE ACCREDITED TO A UNITED NATIONS MISSION IN THE UNITED STATES.
    It is the sense of the Congress that the Secretary of State, in 
considering whether or not to provide a visa to a foreign individual to 
be accredited to a United Nations mission in the United States, should 
consider--
        (1) known and suspected intelligence activities, espionage 
    activities, including activities constituting precursors to 
    espionage, carried out by the individual against the United States, 
    foreign allies of the United States, or foreign partners of the 
    United States; and
        (2) the status of an individual as a known or suspected 
    intelligence officer for a foreign adversary.
SEC. 6747. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON WIKILEAKS.
    It is the sense of Congress that WikiLeaks and the senior 
leadership of WikiLeaks resemble a nonstate hostile intelligence 
service often abetted by state actors and should be treated as such a 
service by the United States.

                       DIVISION F--OTHER MATTERS
           TITLE LXXI--SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO NORTH KOREA

Sec. 7101. Short title.

            Subtitle A--Sanctions With Respect to North Korea

Sec. 7111. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 7112. Definitions.

           Part I--Expansion of Sanctions and Related Matters

Sec. 7121. Sanctions with respect to foreign financial institutions that 
          provide financial services to certain sanctioned persons.
Sec. 7122. Mandatory designations under North Korea Sanctions and Policy 
          Enhancement Act of 2016.
Sec. 7123. Extension of applicability period of proliferation prevention 
          sanctions.
Sec. 7124. Opposition to assistance by the international financial 
          institutions.
Sec. 7125. Support for capacity of the International Monetary Fund to 
          prevent money laundering and financing of terrorism.
Sec. 7126. Report and briefings on compliance, penalties, and technical 
          assistance.
Sec. 7127. Sense of Congress on identification and blocking of property 
          of North Korean officials.
Sec. 7128. Modification of report on implementation of United Nations 
          Security Council resolutions by other governments.
Sec. 7129. Report on use by the Government of North Korea of beneficial 
          ownership rules to access the international financial system.

               Part II--Congressional Review and Oversight

Sec. 7131. Notification of termination or suspension of sanctions.
Sec. 7132. Reports on certain licensing actions.
Sec. 7133. Report and briefings on financial networks and financial 
          methods of the Government of North Korea.
Sec. 7134. Report on countries of concern with respect to transshipment, 
          reexportation, or diversion of certain items to North Korea.

                        Part III--General Matters

Sec. 7141. Rulemaking.
Sec. 7142. Authority to consolidate reports.
Sec. 7143. Waivers, exemptions, and termination.
Sec. 7144. Procedures for review of classified and certain other 
          information.
Sec. 7145. Briefing on resourcing of sanctions programs.
Sec. 7146. Briefing on proliferation financing.
Sec. 7147. Exception relating to importation of goods.

       Subtitle B--Financial Industry Guidance to Halt Trafficking

Sec. 7151. Short title.
Sec. 7152. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 7153. Coordination of human trafficking issues by the Office of 
          Terrorism and Financial Intelligence.
Sec. 7154. Strengthening the role of anti-money laundering and other 
          financial tools in combating human trafficking.
Sec. 7155. Sense of Congress on resources to combat human trafficking.
SEC. 7101. SHORT TITLE.
    This title may be cited as the ``Otto Warmbier North Korea Nuclear 
Sanctions and Enforcement Act of 2019''.

           Subtitle A--Sanctions With Respect to North Korea

SEC. 7111. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the United States is committed to working with its allies 
    and partners to halt the nuclear and ballistic missile programs of 
    North Korea through a policy of maximum pressure and diplomatic 
    engagement;
        (2) the imposition of sanctions, including those under this 
    title, should not be construed to limit the authority of the 
    President to fully engage in diplomatic negotiations to further the 
    policy objective described in paragraph (1);
        (3) the successful use of sanctions to halt the nuclear and 
    ballistic missile programs of North Korea is part of a broader 
    diplomatic and economic strategy that relies on effective 
    coordination among relevant Federal agencies and officials, as well 
    as with international partners of the United States; and
        (4) the coordination described in paragraph (3) should include 
    proper vetting of external messaging and communications from all 
    parts of the Executive branch to ensure that those communications 
    are an intentional component of and aligned with the strategy of 
    the United States with respect to North Korea.
SEC. 7112. DEFINITIONS.
    In this subtitle, the terms ``applicable Executive order'', 
``applicable United Nations Security Council resolution'', 
``appropriate congressional committees'', ``Government of North 
Korea'', ``North Korea'', ``North Korean financial institution'', and 
``North Korean person'' have the meanings given those terms in section 
3 of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 (22 
U.S.C. 9202).

           PART I--EXPANSION OF SANCTIONS AND RELATED MATTERS

SEC. 7121. SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FOREIGN FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS 
THAT PROVIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES TO CERTAIN SANCTIONED PERSONS.
    (a) In General.--Title II of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy 
Enhancement Act of 2016 (22 U.S.C. 9221 et seq.) is amended by 
inserting after section 201A the following:
``SEC. 201B. SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FOREIGN FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS 
THAT PROVIDE FINANCIAL SERVICES TO CERTAIN SANCTIONED PERSONS.
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall impose one 
or more of the sanctions described in subsection (b) with respect to a 
foreign financial institution that the Secretary determines, in 
consultation with the Secretary of State, knowingly, on or after the 
date that is 120 days after the date of the enactment of the Otto 
Warmbier North Korea Nuclear Sanctions and Enforcement Act of 2019, 
provides significant financial services to any person designated for 
the imposition of sanctions with respect to North Korea under--
        ``(1) subsection (a), (b), or (g) of section 104;
        ``(2) an applicable Executive order; or
        ``(3) an applicable United Nations Security Council resolution.
    ``(b) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions that may be imposed with 
respect to a foreign financial institution subject to subsection (a) 
are the following:
        ``(1) Asset blocking.--The Secretary may block and prohibit, 
    pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 
    U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), all transactions in all property and 
    interests in property of the foreign financial institution if such 
    property and interests in property are in the United States, come 
    within the United States, or are or come within the possession or 
    control of a United States person.
        ``(2) Restrictions on correspondent and payable-through 
    accounts.--The Secretary may prohibit, or impose strict conditions 
    on, the opening or maintaining in the United States of a 
    correspondent account or a payable-through account by the foreign 
    financial institution.
    ``(c) Implementation; Penalties.--
        ``(1) Implementation.--The President may exercise all 
    authorities provided under sections 203 and 205 of the 
    International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 
    1704) to carry out this section.
        ``(2) Penalties.--A person that violates, attempts to violate, 
    conspires to violate, or causes a violation of this section or any 
    regulation, license, or order issued to carry out this section 
    shall be subject to the penalties set forth in subsections (b) and 
    (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers 
    Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) to the same extent as a person that commits an 
    unlawful act described in subsection (a) of that section.
    ``(d) Regulations.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of the Otto Warmbier North Korea Nuclear Sanctions and 
Enforcement Act of 2019, the President shall, as appropriate, prescribe 
regulations to carry out this section.
    ``(e) Exception Relating to Importation of Goods.--
        ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding section 404(b) or any 
    provision of this section, the authorities and requirements to 
    impose sanctions under this section shall not include the authority 
    or a requirement to impose sanctions on the importation of goods.
        ``(2) Good defined.--In this subsection, the term `good' means 
    any article, natural or manmade substance, material, supply or 
    manufactured product, including inspection and test equipment, and 
    excluding technical data.
    ``(f) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) Account; correspondent account; payable-through 
    account.--The terms `account', `correspondent account', and 
    `payable-through account' have the meanings given those terms in 
    section 5318A of title 31, United States Code.
        ``(2) Foreign financial institution.--The term `foreign 
    financial institution' has the meaning given that term in section 
    510.309 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations (or any 
    corresponding similar regulation or ruling).
        ``(3) Knowingly.--The term `knowingly', with respect to 
    conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has 
    actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the 
    circumstance, or the result.
``SEC. 201C. PROHIBITION ON TRANSACTIONS WITH CERTAIN SANCTIONED 
PERSONS BY PERSONS OWNED OR CONTROLLED BY UNITED STATES FINANCIAL 
INSTITUTIONS.
    ``(a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of the Otto Warmbier North Korea Nuclear Sanctions and 
Enforcement Act of 2019, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation 
with the Secretary of State, shall prohibit an entity owned or 
controlled by a United States financial institution and established or 
maintained outside the United States from knowingly engaging in any 
transaction described in subsection (b) directly or indirectly with the 
Government of North Korea or any person designated for the imposition 
of sanctions with respect to North Korea under--
        ``(1) subsection (a), (b), or (g) of section 104;
        ``(2) an applicable Executive order; or
        ``(3) an applicable United Nations Security Council resolution.
    ``(b) Transactions Described.--A transaction described in this 
subsection is a transaction that would be prohibited by an order or 
regulation issued pursuant to the International Emergency Economic 
Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) if the transaction were engaged in 
in the United States or by a United States person.
    ``(c) Civil Penalties.--The civil penalty provided for in section 
206(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 
1705(b)) shall apply to a United States financial institution to the 
same extent that such penalty applies to a person that commits an 
unlawful act described in section 206(a) of that Act if an entity owned 
or controlled by the United States financial institution and 
established or maintained outside the United States violates, attempts 
to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any order or 
regulation issued to implement subsection (a).
    ``(d) United States Financial Institution Defined.--In this 
section, the term `United States financial institution' has the meaning 
given the term `U.S. financial institution' in section 510.328 of title 
31, Code of Federal Regulations (or any corresponding similar 
regulation or ruling).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the North Korea 
Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 201A the following:

``Sec. 201B. Sanctions with respect to foreign financial institutions 
          that provide financial services to certain sanctioned persons.
``Sec. 201C. Prohibition on transactions with certain sanctioned persons 
          by persons owned or controlled by United States financial 
          institutions.''.
SEC. 7122. MANDATORY DESIGNATIONS UNDER NORTH KOREA SANCTIONS AND 
POLICY ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2016.
    (a) In General.--Section 104 of the North Korea Sanctions and 
Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 (22 U.S.C. 9214) is amended--
        (1) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) Additional Mandatory Designations.--
        ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in section 208, the 
    President shall designate under this subsection any person that the 
    President determines--
            ``(A) knowingly, directly or indirectly, engages in the 
        importation from or exportation to North Korea of significant 
        quantities of--
                ``(i)(I) coal, textiles, seafood, iron, or iron ore; or
                ``(II) refined petroleum products or crude oil above 
            limits set by the United Nations Security Council and with 
            which the United States concurs; or
                ``(ii) services or technology related to goods 
            specified in clause (i);
            ``(B) knowingly facilitates a significant transfer of funds 
        or property of the Government of North Korea that materially 
        contributes to any violation of an applicable United Nations 
        Security Council resolution;
            ``(C) knowingly, directly or indirectly, engages in, 
        facilitates, or is responsible for the exportation of workers 
        from North Korea, or the employment of such workers, in a 
        manner that generates significant revenue, directly or 
        indirectly, for use by the Government of North Korea or by the 
        Workers' Party of Korea;
            ``(D) knowingly, directly or indirectly, sells or transfers 
        a significant number of vessels to North Korea, except as 
        specifically approved by the United Nations Security Council;
            ``(E) knowingly engages in a significant activity to 
        charter, insure, register, facilitate the registration of, or 
        maintain insurance or a registration for, a vessel owned, 
        controlled, commanded, or crewed by a North Korean person; or
            ``(F) knowingly contributes to and participates in--
                ``(i) a significant act of bribery of an official of 
            the Government of North Korea or any person acting for or 
            on behalf of that official;
                ``(ii) the misappropriation, theft, or embezzlement of 
            a significant amount of public funds by, or for the benefit 
            of, an official of the Government of North Korea or any 
            person acting for or on behalf of that official; or
                ``(iii) the use of any proceeds of any activity 
            described in subparagraph (A) or (B).'';
        (2) in subsection (c), by inserting ``or (g)'' after 
    ``subsection (a)'';
        (3) in subsection (d)--
            (A) by striking ``or'' the first place it appears and 
        inserting a comma; and
            (B) by inserting ``, or (g)'' after ``(b)''; and
        (4) in subsection (e)--
            (A) by striking ``or'' the last place it appears and 
        inserting a comma; and
            (B) by inserting ``, or (g)'' after ``(b)''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--The North Korea Sanctions and Policy 
Enhancement Act of 2016 is amended--
        (1) in section 3(4) (22 U.S.C. 9202(4))--
            (A) by striking ``or'' the first place it appears and 
        inserting a comma; and
            (B) by inserting ``, or (g)'' after ``(b)''; and
        (2) in section 102 (22 U.S.C. 9212)--
            (A) in subsection (a), by inserting ``or (g)'' after 
        ``section 104(a)'' each place it appears; and
            (B) in subsection (b)(1)--
                (i) by striking ``and'' the first place it appears and 
            inserting a comma; and
                (ii) by inserting ``, and (g)'' after ``(b)''; and
        (3) in section 204 (22 U.S.C. 9224), by inserting ``or (g)'' 
    after ``section 104(a)'' each place it appears; and
        (4) in section 302(b)(3) (22 U.S.C. 9241(b)(3)) is amended by 
    striking ``section 104(b)(1)(M)'' and inserting ``section 
    104(g)(1)(C)''.
SEC. 7123. EXTENSION OF APPLICABILITY PERIOD OF PROLIFERATION 
PREVENTION SANCTIONS.
    Section 203(b)(2) of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy 
Enhancement Act of 2016 (22 U.S.C. 9223(b)(2)) is amended by striking 
``2 years'' and inserting ``5 years''.
SEC. 7124. OPPOSITION TO ASSISTANCE BY THE INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL 
INSTITUTIONS.
    (a) In General.--The Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286 et 
seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
  ``SEC. 73. OPPOSITION TO ASSISTANCE FOR ANY GOVERNMENT THAT FAILS TO 
      IMPLEMENT SANCTIONS ON NORTH KOREA.
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the 
United States Executive Director at each international financial 
institution (as defined in section 1701(c) of the International 
Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262r(c))) that it is the policy 
of the United States to oppose the provision by that institution of 
financial assistance to a foreign government, other than assistance to 
support basic human needs, if the President determines that, in the 
year preceding consideration of approval of such assistance, the 
government has knowingly failed to adequately enforce sanctions under 
an applicable United Nations Security Council resolution (as defined in 
section 3 of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 
2016 (22 U.S.C. 9202)).
    ``(b) Waiver.--The President may waive subsection (a) for up to 180 
days at a time with respect to a foreign government if the President--
        ``(1) determines that--
            ``(A) the failure of the foreign government described in 
        subsection (a) is due exclusively to a lack of capacity on the 
        part of the foreign government;
            ``(B) the foreign government is taking effective steps to 
        prevent recurrence of such failure; or
            ``(C) the waiver is in the national security interests of 
        the United States; and
        ``(2) submits to Congress a report on the reasons for the 
    determination under paragraph (1).''.
    (b) Termination.--Effective on the date that is 10 years after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, section 73 of the Bretton Woods 
Agreements Act, as added by subsection (a), is repealed.
SEC. 7125. SUPPORT FOR CAPACITY OF THE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND TO 
PREVENT MONEY LAUNDERING AND FINANCING OF TERRORISM.
    (a) In General.--Title XVI of the International Financial 
Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262p et seq.) is amended by adding at the 
end the following:
``SEC. 1629. SUPPORT FOR CAPACITY OF THE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND TO 
PREVENT MONEY LAUNDERING AND FINANCING OF TERRORISM.
    ``The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States 
Executive Director at the International Monetary Fund to use the voice 
and vote of the United States to support the increased use of the 
administrative budget of the Fund for technical assistance that 
strengthens the capacity of members of the Fund to prevent money 
laundering and the financing of terrorism.''.
    (b) Termination.--Effective on the date that is 5 years after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, section 1629 of the International 
Financial Institutions Act, as added by subsection (a), is repealed.
    (c) National Advisory Council Report to Congress.--The Chairman of 
the National Advisory Council on International Monetary and Financial 
Policies shall include in each report required by section 1701 of the 
International Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262r) after the 
date of the enactment of this Act and before December 31, 2023, a 
description of--
        (1) the activities of the International Monetary Fund in the 
    fiscal year covered by the report to provide technical assistance 
    that strengthens the capacity of members of the Fund to prevent 
    money laundering and the financing of terrorism, and the 
    effectiveness of the assistance; and
        (2) the efficacy of efforts by the United States to support 
    such technical assistance through the use of the Fund's 
    administrative budget, and the level of such support.
SEC. 7126. REPORT AND BRIEFINGS ON COMPLIANCE, PENALTIES, AND TECHNICAL 
ASSISTANCE.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to 
the committees specified in subsection (d) a report that includes--
        (1) a list of financial institutions that, during the period 
    beginning on the date that is one year before the date of the 
    enactment of this Act and ending on the date of the report, 
    knowingly facilitated a significant transaction or transactions or 
    provided significant financial services for--
            (A) any North Korean person designated under an applicable 
        Executive order;
            (B) any North Korean person that knowingly facilitates the 
        transfer of bulk cash or covered goods (as defined under 
        section 1027.100 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations (or 
        any corresponding similar regulation or ruling));
            (C) any person that knowingly invests in, or participates 
        in a joint venture with, an entity in which the Government of 
        North Korea participates or an entity that is created or 
        organized under the laws of North Korea;
            (D) any person that knowingly provides financial services, 
        including through a subsidiary or joint venture, in North 
        Korea;
            (E) any person that knowingly provides specialized 
        teaching, training, or information or provides material or 
        technological support to a North Korean person that--
                (i) may contribute to North Korea's development and 
            proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, including 
            systems designed in whole or in part for the delivery of 
            such weapons; or
                (ii) may contribute to significant activities 
            undermining cybersecurity; and
        (2) a description of efforts by the Department of the Treasury 
    during the period described in paragraph (1), through outreach, 
    consultations, technical assistance, or other appropriate 
    activities, to strengthen the capacity of financial institutions 
    and foreign governments to prevent the provision of financial 
    services benefitting any person subject to sanctions under--
            (A) this Act or an amendment made by this Act;
            (B) an applicable Executive order; or
            (C) an applicable United Nations Security Council 
        resolution.
    (b) Annual Briefings.--Not later than one year after the submission 
of the report required by subsection (a), and annually thereafter until 
the date that is 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of the Treasury shall brief the committees specified in 
subsection (d) on the matters covered by the report for the one-year 
period preceding the briefing.
    (c) Testimony Required.--Upon request of either of the committees 
specified in subsection (d), the Under Secretary of the Treasury for 
Terrorism and Financial Crimes shall testify to explain the effects of 
this Act and the amendments made by this Act on North Korea's access to 
illicit finance channels.
    (d) Committees Specified.--The committees specified in this 
subsection are--
        (1) the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
    Representatives; and
        (2) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the 
    Senate.
SEC. 7127. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON IDENTIFICATION AND BLOCKING OF PROPERTY 
OF NORTH KOREAN OFFICIALS.
    It is the sense of Congress that the President should--
        (1) encourage international collaboration to counter the money 
    laundering, terrorist financing, and proliferation financing 
    threats emanating from North Korea; and
        (2) prioritize multilateral efforts to identify and block--
            (A) any property owned or controlled by a North Korean 
        official; and
            (B) any significant proceeds of kleptocracy by the 
        Government of North Korea or a North Korean official.
SEC. 7128. MODIFICATION OF REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION OF UNITED NATIONS 
SECURITY COUNCIL RESOLUTIONS BY OTHER GOVERNMENTS.
    Section 317 of the Korean Interdiction and Modernization of 
Sanctions Act (title III of Public Law 115-44; 131 Stat. 950) is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
        this Act, and annually thereafter for 5 years,'' and inserting 
        ``Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
        the Otto Warmbier North Korea Nuclear Sanctions and Enforcement 
        Act of 2019, and annually thereafter for 5 years,'';
            (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``; or'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (C) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (8); and
            (D) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
        ``(4) prohibit, in the territories of such countries or by 
    persons subject to the jurisdiction of such governments, the 
    opening of new joint ventures or cooperative entities with North 
    Korean persons or the expansion of existing joint ventures through 
    additional investments, whether or not for or on behalf of the 
    Government of North Korea, unless such joint ventures or 
    cooperative entities have been approved by the committee of the 
    United Nations Security Council established by United Nations 
    Security Council Resolution 1718 (2006);
        ``(5) prohibit the unauthorized clearing of funds by North 
    Korean financial institutions through financial institutions 
    subject to the jurisdiction of such governments;
        ``(6) prohibit the unauthorized conduct of commercial trade 
    with North Korea that is prohibited under applicable United Nations 
    Security Council resolutions;
        ``(7) prevent the provision of significant financial services 
    to North Korean persons or the transfer of such services to North 
    Korean persons to, through, or from the territories of such 
    countries or by persons subject to the jurisdiction of such 
    governments; or''; and
        (2) by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) Appropriate congressional committees and leadership.--The 
    term `appropriate congressional committees and leadership' means--
            ``(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
        Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, and the majority and 
        minority leaders of the Senate; and
            ``(B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
        Financial Services, the Committee on Ways and Means, and the 
        Speaker, the majority leader, and the minority leader of the 
        House of Representatives.
        ``(2) Applicable united nations security council resolution; 
    north korean financial institution; north korean person.--The terms 
    `applicable United Nations Security Council resolution', `North 
    Korean financial institution', and `North Korean person' have the 
    meanings given those terms in section 3 of the North Korea 
    Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 (22 U.S.C. 9202).''.
SEC. 7129. REPORT ON USE BY THE GOVERNMENT OF NORTH KOREA OF BENEFICIAL 
OWNERSHIP RULES TO ACCESS THE INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL SYSTEM.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation 
with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees a report setting forth the findings of the 
Secretary regarding how the Government of North Korea is exploiting the 
laws of countries other than the United States with respect to the 
beneficial owner of an entity in order to access the international 
financial system.
    (b) Elements.--The Secretary shall include in the report required 
under subsection (a) proposals for such legislative and administrative 
action as the Secretary considers appropriate to combat the abuse by 
the Government of North Korea of shell companies and other similar 
entities subject to the jurisdiction of governments other than the 
United States Government to avoid or evade sanctions.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.

              PART II--CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW AND OVERSIGHT

SEC. 7131. NOTIFICATION OF TERMINATION OR SUSPENSION OF SANCTIONS.
    Before taking any action to terminate or suspend the application of 
sanctions under this subtitle or an amendment made by this subtitle, 
the President shall notify the appropriate congressional committees of 
the President's intent to take the action and the reasons for the 
action.
SEC. 7132. REPORTS ON CERTAIN LICENSING ACTIONS.
    (a) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the President 
    shall submit to the committees specified in paragraph (2) a report 
    on the operation of the system for issuing licenses for 
    transactions under covered regulatory provisions during the 
    preceding 180-day period that includes--
            (A) the number and types of such licenses applied for 
        during that period; and
            (B) the number of such licenses issued during that period 
        and information identifying the person receiving each such 
        license.
        (2) Committees specified.--The committees specified in this 
    paragraph are the following:
            (A) The Committee on Financial Services and the Committee 
        on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
            (B) The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs 
        and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
    (b) Submission of Copies of Licenses on Request.--The Secretary of 
the Treasury shall expeditiously provide a copy of any license 
identified in a report required by subsection (a)(1) to the Committee 
on Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate if an appropriate 
Member of Congress requests a copy of that license not later than 30 
days after submission of the report.
    (c) Form.--Each report required by subsection (a), and each copy of 
a license submitted under subsection (b), shall be submitted in 
unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate member of congress.--The term ``appropriate 
    Member of Congress'' means--
            (A) the chairman or ranking member of the Committee on 
        Financial Services of the House of Representatives; or
            (B) the chairman or ranking member of the Committee on 
        Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.
        (2) Covered regulatory provision.--The term ``covered 
    regulatory provision'' means any of the following provisions, as in 
    effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this Act and 
    as such provisions relate to North Korea:
            (A) Part 743, 744, or 746 of title 15, Code of Federal 
        Regulations.
            (B) Part 510 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations.
            (C) Any other provision of title 31, Code of Federal 
        Regulations.
SEC. 7133. REPORT AND BRIEFINGS ON FINANCIAL NETWORKS AND FINANCIAL 
METHODS OF THE GOVERNMENT OF NORTH KOREA.
    (a) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the 
    appropriate congressional committees a report on sources of 
    external support for the Government of North Korea that includes--
            (A) a description of the methods used by the Government of 
        North Korea to deal in, transact in, or conceal the ownership, 
        control, or origin of, goods and services exported by North 
        Korea;
            (B) an assessment of the relationship between the 
        proliferation of weapons of mass destruction by the Government 
        of North Korea and the financial industry or financial 
        institutions;
            (C) an assessment of the relationship between the 
        acquisition by the Government of North Korea of military 
        expertise, equipment, and technology and the financial industry 
        or financial institutions;
            (D) a description of the export by any person to the United 
        States of goods, services, or technology that are made with 
        significant amounts of North Korean labor, material, or goods, 
        including minerals, manufacturing, seafood, overseas labor, or 
        other exports from North Korea;
            (E) an assessment of the involvement of any person in human 
        trafficking involving citizens or nationals of North Korea;
            (F) a description of how the President plans to address the 
        flow of funds generated by activities described in 
        subparagraphs (A) through (E), including through the use of 
        sanctions or other means;
            (G) an assessment of the extent to which the Government of 
        North Korea engages in criminal activities, including money 
        laundering, to support that Government;
            (H) information relating to the identification, blocking, 
        and release of property described in section 201B(b)(1) of the 
        North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016, as 
        added by section 7121;
            (I) a description of the metrics used to measure the 
        effectiveness of law enforcement and diplomatic initiatives of 
        Federal, State, and foreign governments to comply with the 
        provisions of applicable United Nations Security Council 
        resolutions; and
            (J) an assessment of the effectiveness of programs within 
        the financial industry to ensure compliance with United States 
        sanctions, applicable United Nations Security Council 
        resolutions, and applicable Executive orders.
        (2) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
    (b) Briefings.--Not later than one year after the submission of the 
report required by subsection (a), and annually thereafter until the 
date that is 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
President shall brief the appropriate congressional committees on the 
matters covered by the report for the one-year period preceding the 
briefing.
    (c) Interagency Coordination.--The President shall ensure that any 
information collected pursuant to subsection (a) is shared among the 
Federal departments and agencies involved in investigations described 
in section 102(b) of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement 
Act of 2016 (22 U.S.C. 9212(b)).
SEC. 7134. REPORT ON COUNTRIES OF CONCERN WITH RESPECT TO 
TRANSSHIPMENT, REEXPORTATION, OR DIVERSION OF CERTAIN ITEMS TO NORTH 
KOREA.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter through 2023, the 
Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the President, the 
Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of 
State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the appropriate congressional 
committees a report that identifies all countries that the Director 
determines are of concern with respect to transshipment, reexportation, 
or diversion of items subject to the provisions of the Export 
Administration Regulations under subchapter C of chapter VII of title 
15, Code of Federal Regulations, to an entity owned or controlled by 
the Government of North Korea.
    (b) Form.--Each report required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.

                       PART III--GENERAL MATTERS

SEC. 7141. RULEMAKING.
    The President shall prescribe such rules and regulations as may be 
necessary to carry out this subtitle and amendments made by this 
subtitle.
SEC. 7142. AUTHORITY TO CONSOLIDATE REPORTS.
    (a) In General.--Any and all reports required to be submitted to 
the appropriate congressional committees under this subtitle or an 
amendment made by this subtitle that are subject to a deadline for 
submission consisting of the same unit of time may be consolidated into 
a single report that is submitted pursuant to that deadline.
    (b) Contents.--Any reports consolidated under subsection (a) shall 
contain all information required under this subtitle or an amendment 
made by this subtitle and any other elements that may be required by 
existing law.
SEC. 7143. WAIVERS, EXEMPTIONS, AND TERMINATION.
    (a) Application and Modification of Exemptions From and Waivers of 
North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016.--Section 208 
of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 (22 
U.S.C. 9228) is amended by inserting ``201B, 201C,'' after ``201A,'' 
each place it appears.
    (b) Suspension.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to section 7131, the President may 
    suspend the application of any provision of or amendment made by 
    this subtitle (other than section 7147 of this title or section 
    201B(e) of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 
    2016, as added by section 7121 of this title) with respect to an 
    entity, individual, or transaction, for renewable periods of not 
    more than 180 days each if, before such a suspension or renewal of 
    such a suspension takes effect, the President submits to the 
    appropriate congressional committees--
            (A) a certification that--
                (i) the Government of North Korea has--

                    (I) committed to the verifiable suspension of North 
                Korea's proliferation and testing of weapons of mass 
                destruction, including systems designed in whole or in 
                part for the delivery of such weapons; and
                    (II) has agreed to multilateral talks including the 
                Government of the United States, with the goal of 
                permanently and verifiably limiting North Korea's 
                weapons of mass destruction and ballistic missile 
                programs; or

                (ii) the suspension is vital to the national security 
            interests of the United States; and
            (B) if the President submits a certification under 
        subparagraph (A)(ii), an explanation of the reasons the 
        suspension is vital to the national security interests of the 
        United States.
        (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 401(a) of the North Korea 
    Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 (22 U.S.C. 9251(a)) is 
    amended by inserting ``(other than section 104(g), 201B, or 201C)'' 
    after ``such titles)''.
    (c) Termination.--Subject to section 7131, any requirement to 
impose sanctions under this subtitle or the amendments made by this 
subtitle, and any sanctions imposed pursuant to this subtitle or any 
such amendment, shall terminate on the date on which the President 
makes the certification described in section 402 of the North Korea 
Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 (22 U.S.C. 9252).
SEC. 7144. PROCEDURES FOR REVIEW OF CLASSIFIED AND CERTAIN OTHER 
INFORMATION.
    (a) In General.--If a finding under this subtitle or an amendment 
made by this subtitle, a prohibition, condition, or penalty imposed as 
a result of any such finding, or a penalty imposed under this subtitle 
or an amendment made by this subtitle, is based on classified 
information (as defined in section 1(a) of the Classified Information 
Procedures Act (18 U.S.C. App.)), law enforcement information, or any 
other information protected from disclosure by statute, and a court 
reviews the finding or the imposition of the prohibition, condition, or 
penalty, the Secretary of the Treasury may submit such information to 
the court ex parte and in camera.
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to confer or imply any right to judicial review of any 
finding under this subtitle or an amendment made by this subtitle, any 
prohibition, condition, or penalty imposed as a result of any such 
finding, or any penalty imposed under this subtitle or an amendment 
made by this subtitle.
SEC. 7145. BRIEFING ON RESOURCING OF SANCTIONS PROGRAMS.
    Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide to the appropriate 
congressional committees a briefing on--
        (1) the resources allocated by the Department of the Treasury 
    to support each sanctions program administered by the Department; 
    and
        (2) recommendations for additional authorities or resources 
    necessary to expand the capacity or capability of the Department 
    related to implementation and enforcement of such programs.
SEC. 7146. BRIEFING ON PROLIFERATION FINANCING.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation 
with the Secretary of State, shall provide to the appropriate 
congressional committees a briefing on addressing proliferation 
finance.
    (b) Elements.--The briefing required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        (1) The Department of the Treasury's description of the 
    principles underlying appropriate methods for combating the 
    financing of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
        (2) An assessment of--
            (A) Federal financial regulatory agency oversight, 
        including by the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, of 
        United States financial institutions and the adoption by their 
        foreign subsidiaries, branches, and correspondent institutions 
        of the principles described under paragraph (1); and
            (B) whether financial institutions in foreign jurisdictions 
        known by the United States intelligence and law enforcement 
        communities to be jurisdictions through which North Korea moves 
        substantial sums of licit and illicit finance are applying a 
        risk-based approach to proliferation financing, and if that 
        approach is comparable to the approach required by United 
        States financial institution supervisors.
        (3) A survey of the technical assistance the Office of 
    Technical Assistance of the Department of the Treasury and other 
    appropriate Executive branch offices currently provide foreign 
    governments on implementing counter-proliferation financing best 
    practices.
        (4) An assessment of the ability of foreign subsidiaries, 
    branches, and correspondent institutions of United States financial 
    institutions to implement a risk-based approach to proliferation 
    financing.
SEC. 7147. EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTATION OF GOODS.
    (a) In General.--The authorities and requirements to impose 
sanctions authorized under this subtitle or any amendment made by this 
subtitle shall not include the authority or requirement to impose 
sanctions on the importation of goods.
    (b) Good Defined.--In this section, the term ``good'' means any 
article, natural or manmade substance, material, supply or manufactured 
product, including inspection and test equipment, and excluding 
technical data.

      Subtitle B--Financial Industry Guidance to Halt Trafficking

SEC. 7151. SHORT TITLE.
    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Financial Industry Guidance to 
Halt Trafficking Act'' or the ``FIGHT Act''.
SEC. 7152. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the President should aggressively apply, as appropriate, 
    existing sanctions for human trafficking authorized under section 
    111 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 
    7108);
        (2) the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the Department 
    of the Treasury should continue--
            (A) to monitor reporting required under subchapter II of 
        chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code (commonly known as 
        the ``Bank Secrecy Act'') and to update advisories, as 
        warranted;
            (B) to periodically review its advisories to provide 
        covered financial institutions, as appropriate, with a list of 
        new ``red flags'' for identifying activities of concern, 
        particularly human trafficking;
            (C) to encourage entities covered by the advisories 
        described in subparagraph (B) to incorporate relevant elements 
        provided in the advisories into their current transaction and 
        account monitoring systems or in policies, procedures, and 
        training on human trafficking to enable financial institutions 
        to maintain ongoing efforts to examine transactions and 
        accounts;
            (D) to use geographic targeting orders, as appropriate, to 
        impose additional reporting and recordkeeping requirements 
        under section 5326(a) of title 31, United States Code, to carry 
        out the purposes of, and prevent evasions of, the Bank Secrecy 
        Act; and
            (E) to utilize the Bank Secrecy Act Advisory Group and 
        other relevant entities to identify opportunities for 
        nongovernmental organizations to share relevant actionable 
        information on human traffickers' use of the financial sector 
        for nefarious purposes;
        (3) Federal banking regulators, the Department of the Treasury, 
    relevant law enforcement agencies, and the Human Smuggling and 
    Trafficking Center, in partnership with representatives from the 
    United States financial community, should adopt regular forms of 
    sharing information to disrupt human trafficking, including 
    developing protocols and procedures to share actionable information 
    between and among covered institutions, law enforcement, and the 
    United States intelligence community;
        (4) training frontline bank and money service business 
    employees, school teachers, law enforcement officers, foreign 
    service officers, counselors, and the general public is an 
    important factor in identifying trafficking victims;
        (5) the Department of Homeland Security's Blue Campaign, 
    training by the BEST Employers Alliance, and similar efforts by 
    industry, human rights, and nongovernmental organizations focused 
    on human trafficking provide good examples of current efforts to 
    educate employees of critical sectors with respect to how to save 
    victims and disrupt trafficking networks;
        (6) the President should intensify diplomatic efforts, 
    bilaterally and in appropriate international fora such as the 
    United Nations, to develop and implement a coordinated, consistent, 
    multilateral strategy for addressing the international financial 
    networks supporting human trafficking; and
        (7) in deliberations between the United States Government and 
    any foreign country, including through participation in the Egmont 
    Group of Financial Intelligence Units, regarding money laundering, 
    corruption, and transnational crimes, the United States Government 
    should--
            (A) encourage cooperation by foreign governments and 
        relevant international fora in identifying the extent to which 
        the proceeds from human trafficking are being used to 
        facilitate terrorist financing, corruption, or other illicit 
        financial crimes;
            (B) encourage cooperation by foreign governments and 
        relevant international fora in identifying the nexus between 
        human trafficking and money laundering;
            (C) advance policies that promote the cooperation of 
        foreign governments, through information sharing, training, or 
        other measures, in the enforcement of this subtitle;
            (D) encourage other countries to assess their human 
        trafficking and money laundering risks in light of updated 
        guidance provided by the Financial Action Task Force in 2018; 
        and
            (E) encourage the Egmont Group of Financial Intelligence 
        Units to study the extent to which human trafficking operations 
        are being used for money laundering, terrorist financing, or 
        other illicit financial purposes.
SEC. 7153. COORDINATION OF HUMAN TRAFFICKING ISSUES BY THE OFFICE OF 
TERRORISM AND FINANCIAL INTELLIGENCE.
    (a) Functions.--Section 312(a)(4) of title 31, United States Code, 
is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (E), (F), and (G) as 
    subparagraphs (F), (G), and (H), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following:
            ``(E) combating illicit financing relating to human 
        trafficking;''.
    (b) Interagency Coordination.--Section 312(a) of such title is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
        ``(8) Interagency coordination.--The Secretary of the Treasury, 
    after consultation with the Undersecretary for Terrorism and 
    Financial Crimes, shall designate an office within the OTFI that 
    shall coordinate efforts to combat the illicit financing of human 
    trafficking with--
            ``(A) other offices of the Department of the Treasury;
            ``(B) other Federal agencies, including--
                ``(i) the Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in 
            Persons of the Department of State; and
                ``(ii) the Interagency Task Force to Monitor and Combat 
            Trafficking;
            ``(C) State and local law enforcement agencies; and
            ``(D) foreign governments.''.
SEC. 7154. STRENGTHENING THE ROLE OF ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING AND OTHER 
FINANCIAL TOOLS IN COMBATING HUMAN TRAFFICKING.
    (a) Interagency Task Force Recommendations Targeting Money 
Laundering Related to Human Trafficking.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Interagency Task Force to Monitor and 
    Combat Trafficking, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State 
    and the Secretary of the Treasury, shall submit to the Committee on 
    Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Foreign 
    Relations, and the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate, the 
    Committee on Financial Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, 
    and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives, 
    and each appropriate Federal banking agency--
            (A) an analysis of anti-money laundering efforts of the 
        United States Government, United States financial institutions, 
        and international financial institutions (as defined in section 
        1701(c) of the International Financial Institutions Act (22 
        U.S.C. 262r(c))) related to human trafficking; and
            (B) appropriate legislative, administrative, and other 
        recommendations to strengthen efforts against money laundering 
        related to human trafficking.
        (2) Required recommendations.--The recommendations under 
    paragraph (1) shall include--
            (A) best practices based on successful anti-human 
        trafficking programs currently in place at domestic and 
        international financial institutions that are suitable for 
        broader adoption;
            (B) feedback from stakeholders, including victims of severe 
        forms of trafficking in persons, advocates of persons at risk 
        of becoming victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons, 
        the United States Advisory Council on Human Trafficking, civil 
        society organizations, and financial institutions on policy 
        proposals derived from the analysis conducted by the task force 
        referred to in paragraph (1) that would enhance the efforts and 
        programs of financial institutions to detect and deter money 
        laundering related to human trafficking, including any 
        recommended changes to internal policies, procedures, and 
        controls related to human trafficking;
            (C) any recommended changes to training programs at 
        financial institutions to better equip employees to deter and 
        detect money laundering related to human trafficking; and
            (D) any recommended changes to expand human trafficking-
        related information sharing among financial institutions and 
        between such financial institutions, appropriate law 
        enforcement agencies, and appropriate Federal agencies.
    (b) Additional Reporting Requirement.--Section 105(d)(7) of the 
Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7103(d)(7)) is 
amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A)--
            (A) by inserting ``the Committee on Financial Services,'' 
        after ``the Committee on Foreign Affairs''; and
            (B) by inserting ``the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
        Urban Affairs,'' after ``the Committee on Foreign Relations,'';
        (2) in subparagraph (Q)(vii), by striking ``; and'' and 
    inserting a semicolon;
        (3) in subparagraph (R), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting ``; and''; and
        (4) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(S) the efforts of the United States to eliminate money 
        laundering related to human trafficking and the number of 
        investigations, arrests, indictments, and convictions in money 
        laundering cases with a nexus to human trafficking.''.
    (c) Required Review of Procedures.--Not later than 180 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Federal Financial 
Institutions Examination Council, in consultation with the Secretary of 
the Treasury, victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons, 
advocates of persons at risk of becoming victims of severe forms of 
trafficking in persons, the United States Advisory Council on 
Trafficking, civil society organizations, the private sector, and 
appropriate law enforcement agencies, shall--
        (1) review and enhance training and examination procedures to 
    improve the surveillance capabilities of anti-money laundering 
    programs and programs countering the financing of terrorism to 
    detect human trafficking-related financial transactions;
        (2) review and enhance procedures for referring potential human 
    trafficking cases to the appropriate law enforcement agency; and
        (3) determine, as appropriate, whether requirements for 
    financial institutions and covered financial institutions are 
    sufficient to detect and deter money laundering related to human 
    trafficking.
    (d) Limitations.--Nothing in this section shall be construed to--
        (1) grant rulemaking authority to the Interagency Task Force to 
    Monitor and Combat Trafficking; or
        (2) authorize financial institutions to deny services to or 
    violate the privacy of victims of trafficking, victims of severe 
    forms of trafficking, or individuals not responsible for promoting 
    severe forms of trafficking in persons.
SEC. 7155. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON RESOURCES TO COMBAT HUMAN TRAFFICKING.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) adequate funding should be provided for critical Federal 
    efforts to combat human trafficking;
        (2) the Department of the Treasury should have the appropriate 
    resources to vigorously investigate human trafficking networks 
    under section 111 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 
    (22 U.S.C. 7108) and other relevant statutes and Executive orders;
        (3) the Department of the Treasury and the Department of 
    Justice should each have the capacity and appropriate resources to 
    support technical assistance to develop foreign partners' ability 
    to combat human trafficking through strong national anti-money 
    laundering programs and programs countering the financing of 
    terrorism;
        (4) each United States Attorney's Office should be provided 
    appropriate funding to increase the number of personnel for 
    community education and outreach and investigative support and 
    forensic analysis related to human trafficking; and
        (5) the Department of State should be provided additional 
    resources, as necessary, to carry out the Survivors of Human 
    Trafficking Empowerment Act (section 115 of Public Law 114-22; 129 
    Stat. 243).

 TITLE LXXII--SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FOREIGN TRAFFICKERS OF ILLICIT 
                           SYNTHETIC OPIOIDS

Sec. 7201. Short title.
Sec. 7202. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 7203. Definitions.

    Subtitle A--Sanctions With Respect to Foreign Opioid Traffickers

Sec. 7211. Identification of foreign opioid traffickers.
Sec. 7212. Imposition of sanctions.
Sec. 7213. Description of sanctions.
Sec. 7214. Waivers.
Sec. 7215. Procedures for judicial review of classified information.
Sec. 7216. Briefings on implementation.
Sec. 7217. Inclusion of additional material in International Narcotics 
          Control Strategy Report.

    Subtitle B--Commission on Combating Synthetic Opioid Trafficking

Sec. 7221. Commission on combating synthetic opioid trafficking.

                        Subtitle C--Other Matters

Sec. 7231. Director of National Intelligence program on use of 
          intelligence resources in efforts to sanction foreign opioid 
          traffickers.
Sec. 7232. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 7233. Regulatory authority.
Sec. 7234. Termination.
Sec. 7235. Exception relating to importation of goods.
SEC. 7201. SHORT TITLE.
    This title may be cited as the ``Fentanyl Sanctions Act''.
SEC. 7202. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the United States should apply economic and other financial 
    sanctions to foreign traffickers of illicit opioids to protect the 
    national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States 
    and the health of the people of the United States;
        (2) it is imperative that the People's Republic of China follow 
    through on full implementation of the new regulations, adopted May 
    1, 2019, to treat all fentanyl analogues as controlled substances 
    under the laws of the People's Republic of China, including by 
    devoting sufficient resources for implementation and strict 
    enforcement of the new regulations; and
        (3) the effective enforcement of the new regulations should 
    result in diminished trafficking of illicit fentanyl originating 
    from the People's Republic of China into the United States.
SEC. 7203. DEFINITIONS.
    In this title:
        (1) Alien; national; national of the united states.--The terms 
    ``alien'', ``national'', and ``national of the United States'' have 
    the meanings given those terms in section 101 of the Immigration 
    and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101).
        (2) Appropriate congressional committees and leadership.--The 
    term ``appropriate congressional committees and leadership'' 
    means--
            (A) the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Armed 
        Services, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, 
        the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Homeland 
        Security and Governmental Affairs, the Committee on the 
        Judiciary, the Select Committee on Intelligence, and the 
        majority leader and the minority leader of the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Armed 
        Services, the Committee on Financial Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Homeland Security, the 
        Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on Oversight and 
        Reform, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and the 
        Speaker and the minority leader of the House of 
        Representatives.
        (3) Controlled substance; listed chemical.--The terms 
    ``controlled substance'', ``listed chemical'', ``narcotic drug'', 
    and ``opioid'' have the meanings given those terms in section 102 
    of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802).
        (4) Entity.--The term ``entity'' means a partnership, joint 
    venture, association, corporation, organization, network, group, or 
    subgroup, or any form of business collaboration.
        (5) Foreign opioid trafficker.--The term ``foreign opioid 
    trafficker'' means any foreign person that the President determines 
    plays a significant role in opioid trafficking.
        (6) Foreign person.--The term ``foreign person''--
            (A) means--
                (i) any citizen or national of a foreign country; or
                (ii) any entity not organized under the laws of the 
            United States or a jurisdiction within the United States; 
            and
            (B) does not include the government of a foreign country.
        (7) Knowingly.--The term ``knowingly'', with respect to 
    conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has 
    actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the 
    circumstance, or the result.
        (8) Opioid trafficking.--The term ``opioid trafficking'' means 
    any illicit activity--
            (A) to produce, manufacture, distribute, sell, or knowingly 
        finance or transport--
                (i) synthetic opioids, including controlled substances 
            that are synthetic opioids and listed chemicals that are 
            synthetic opioids; or
                (ii) active pharmaceutical ingredients or chemicals 
            that are used in the production of controlled substances 
            that are synthetic opioids;
            (B) to attempt to carry out an activity described in 
        subparagraph (A); or
            (C) to assist, abet, conspire, or collude with other 
        persons to carry out such an activity.
        (9) Person.--The term ``person'' means an individual or entity.
        (10) United states person.--The term ``United States person'' 
    means--
            (A) any citizen or national of the United States;
            (B) any alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in 
        the United States;
            (C) any entity organized under the laws of the United 
        States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including 
        a foreign branch of such an entity); or
            (D) any person located in the United States.

    Subtitle A--Sanctions With Respect to Foreign Opioid Traffickers

SEC. 7211. IDENTIFICATION OF FOREIGN OPIOID TRAFFICKERS.
    (a) Public Report.--
        (1) In general.--The President shall submit to the appropriate 
    congressional committees and leadership, in accordance with 
    subsection (c), a report--
            (A) identifying the foreign persons that the President 
        determines are foreign opioid traffickers;
            (B) detailing progress the President has made in 
        implementing this subtitle; and
            (C) providing an update on cooperative efforts with the 
        governments of Mexico, the People's Republic of China, and 
        other countries of concern with respect to combating foreign 
        opioid traffickers.
        (2) Identification of additional persons.--If, at any time 
    after submitting a report required by paragraph (1) and before the 
    submission of the next such report, the President determines that a 
    foreign person not identified in the report is a foreign opioid 
    trafficker, the President shall submit to the appropriate 
    congressional committees and leadership an additional report 
    containing the information required by paragraph (1) with respect 
    to the foreign person.
        (3) Exclusion.--The President shall not be required to include 
    in a report under paragraph (1) or (2) any persons with respect to 
    which the United States has imposed sanctions before the date of 
    the report under this subtitle or any other provision of law with 
    respect to opioid trafficking.
        (4) Form of report.--
            (A) In general.--Each report required by paragraph (1) or 
        (2) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a 
        classified annex.
            (B) Availability to public.--The unclassified portion of a 
        report required by paragraph (1) or (2) shall be made available 
        to the public.
    (b) Classified Report.--
        (1) In general.--The President shall submit to the appropriate 
    congressional committees and leadership, in accordance with 
    subsection (c), a report, in classified form--
            (A) describing in detail the status of sanctions imposed 
        under this subtitle, including the personnel and resources 
        directed toward the imposition of such sanctions during the 
        preceding fiscal year;
            (B) providing background information with respect to 
        persons newly identified as foreign opioid traffickers and 
        their illicit activities;
            (C) describing actions the President intends to undertake 
        or has undertaken to implement this subtitle; and
            (D) providing a strategy for identifying additional foreign 
        opioid traffickers.
        (2) Effect on other reporting requirements.--The report 
    required by paragraph (1) is in addition to, and in no way delimits 
    or restricts, the obligations of the President to keep Congress 
    fully and currently informed pursuant to the provisions of the 
    National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.).
    (c) Submission of Reports.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter until the date 
that is 5 years after such date of enactment, the President shall 
submit the reports required by subsections (a) and (b) to the 
appropriate congressional committees and leadership.
    (d) Exclusion of Certain Information.--
        (1) Intelligence.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
    section, a report required by subsection (a) or (b) shall not 
    disclose the identity of any person if the Director of National 
    Intelligence determines that such disclosure could compromise an 
    intelligence operation, activity, source, or method of the United 
    States.
        (2) Law enforcement.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
    this section, a report required by subsection (a) or (b) shall not 
    disclose the identity of any person if the Attorney General, in 
    coordination, as appropriate, with the Director of the Federal 
    Bureau of Investigation, the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement 
    Administration, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of 
    State, and the head of any other appropriate Federal law 
    enforcement agency, determines that such disclosure could 
    reasonably be expected--
            (A) to compromise the identity of a confidential source, 
        including a State, local, or foreign agency or authority or any 
        private institution that furnished information on a 
        confidential basis;
            (B) to jeopardize the integrity or success of an ongoing 
        criminal investigation or prosecution;
            (C) to endanger the life or physical safety of any person; 
        or
            (D) to cause substantial harm to physical property.
        (3) Notification required.--If the Director of National 
    Intelligence makes a determination under paragraph (1) or the 
    Attorney General makes a determination under paragraph (2), the 
    Director or the Attorney General, as the case may be, shall notify 
    the appropriate congressional committees and leadership of the 
    determination and the reasons for the determination.
        (4) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
    construed to authorize or compel the disclosure of information 
    determined by the President to be law enforcement information, 
    classified information, national security information, or other 
    information the disclosure of which is prohibited by any other 
    provision of law.
    (e) Provision of Information Required for Reports.--The Secretary 
of the Treasury, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Defense, the 
Secretary of State, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the 
Director of National Intelligence shall consult among themselves and 
provide to the President and the Director of the Office of National 
Drug Control Policy the appropriate and necessary information to enable 
the President to submit the reports required by subsection (a).
SEC. 7212. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS.
    The President shall impose five or more of the sanctions described 
in section 7213 with respect to each foreign person that is an entity, 
and four or more of such sanctions with respect to each foreign person 
that is an individual, that--
        (1) is identified as a foreign opioid trafficker in a report 
    submitted under section 7211(a); or
        (2) the President determines is owned, controlled, directed by, 
    knowingly supplying or sourcing precursors for, or knowingly acting 
    for or on behalf of, such a foreign opioid trafficker.
SEC. 7213. DESCRIPTION OF SANCTIONS.
    (a) In General.--The sanctions that may be imposed with respect to 
a foreign person under section 7212 are the following:
        (1) Loans from united states financial institutions.--The 
    United States Government may prohibit any United States financial 
    institution from making loans or providing credits to the foreign 
    person.
        (2) Prohibitions on financial institutions.--The following 
    prohibitions may be imposed with respect to a foreign person that 
    is a financial institution:
            (A) Prohibition on designation as primary dealer.--Neither 
        the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System nor the 
        Federal Reserve Bank of New York may designate, or permit the 
        continuation of any prior designation of, the financial 
        institution as a primary dealer in United States Government 
        debt instruments.
            (B) Prohibition on service as a repository of government 
        funds.--The financial institution may not serve as agent of the 
        United States Government or serve as repository for United 
        States Government funds.
    The imposition of either sanction under subparagraph (A) or (B) 
    shall be treated as one sanction for purposes of section 7212, and 
    the imposition of both such sanctions shall be treated as 2 
    sanctions for purposes of that section.
        (3) Procurement ban.--The United States Government may not 
    procure, or enter into any contract for the procurement of, any 
    goods or services from the foreign person.
        (4) Foreign exchange.--The President may, pursuant to such 
    regulations as the President may prescribe, prohibit any 
    transactions in foreign exchange that are subject to the 
    jurisdiction of the United States and in which the foreign person 
    has any interest.
        (5) Banking transactions.--The President may, pursuant to such 
    regulations as the President may prescribe, prohibit any transfers 
    of credit or payments between financial institutions or by, 
    through, or to any financial institution, to the extent that such 
    transfers or payments are subject to the jurisdiction of the United 
    States and involve any interest of the foreign person.
        (6) Property transactions.--The President may, pursuant to such 
    regulations as the President may prescribe, prohibit any person 
    from--
            (A) acquiring, holding, withholding, using, transferring, 
        withdrawing, or transporting any property that is subject to 
        the jurisdiction of the United States and with respect to which 
        the foreign person has any interest;
            (B) dealing in or exercising any right, power, or privilege 
        with respect to such property; or
            (C) conducting any transaction involving such property.
        (7) Ban on investment in equity or debt of sanctioned person.--
    The President may, pursuant to such regulations or guidelines as 
    the President may prescribe, prohibit any United States person from 
    investing in or purchasing significant amounts of equity or debt 
    instruments of the foreign person.
        (8) Exclusion of corporate officers.--The President may direct 
    the Secretary of State to deny a visa to, and the Secretary of 
    Homeland Security to exclude from the United States, any alien that 
    the President determines is a corporate officer or principal of, or 
    a shareholder with a controlling interest in, the foreign person.
        (9) Sanctions on principal executive officers.--The President 
    may impose on the principal executive officer or officers of the 
    foreign person, or on individuals performing similar functions and 
    with similar authorities as such officer or officers, any of the 
    sanctions described in paragraphs (1) through (8) that are 
    applicable.
    (b) Penalties.--A person that violates, attempts to violate, 
conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any regulation, license, 
or order issued to carry out subsection (a) shall be subject to the 
penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the 
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) to the 
same extent as a person that commits an unlawful act described in 
subsection (a) of that section.
    (c) Exceptions.--
        (1) Intelligence and law enforcement activities.--Sanctions 
    under this section shall not apply with respect to--
            (A) any activity subject to the reporting requirements 
        under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
        3091 et seq.); or
            (B) any authorized intelligence or law enforcement 
        activities of the United States.
        (2) Exception to comply with united nations headquarters 
    agreement.--Sanctions under subsection (a)(8) shall not apply to an 
    alien if admitting the alien into the United States is necessary to 
    permit the United States to comply with the Agreement regarding the 
    Headquarters of the United Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 
    1947, and entered into force November 21, 1947, between the United 
    Nations and the United States, the Convention on Consular 
    Relations, done at Vienna April 24, 1963, and entered into force 
    March 19, 1967, or other applicable international obligations.
    (d) Implementation.--The President may exercise all authorities 
provided under sections 203 and 205 of the International Emergency 
Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) to carry out this 
section.
SEC. 7214. WAIVERS.
    (a) Waiver for State-owned Entities in Countries That Cooperate in 
Multilateral Anti-trafficking Efforts.--
        (1) In general.--The President may waive for a period of not 
    more than 12 months the application of sanctions under this 
    subtitle with respect to an entity that is owned or controlled, 
    directly or indirectly, by a foreign government or any political 
    subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of a foreign government, 
    if, not less than 15 days before the waiver is to take effect, the 
    President certifies to the appropriate congressional committees and 
    leadership that the foreign government is closely cooperating with 
    the United States in efforts to prevent opioid trafficking.
        (2) Certification.--The President may certify under paragraph 
    (1) that a foreign government is closely cooperating with the 
    United States in efforts to prevent opioid trafficking if that 
    government is--
            (A) implementing domestic laws to schedule all fentanyl 
        analogues as controlled substances; and
            (B) doing two or more of the following:
                (i) Implementing substantial improvements in 
            regulations involving the chemical and pharmaceutical 
            production and export of illicit opioids.
                (ii) Implementing substantial improvements in judicial 
            regulations to combat transnational criminal organizations 
            that traffic opioids.
                (iii) Increasing efforts to prosecute foreign opioid 
            traffickers.
                (iv) Increasing intelligence sharing and law 
            enforcement cooperation with the United States with respect 
            to opioid trafficking.
        (3) Subsequent renewal of waiver.--The President may renew a 
    waiver under paragraph (1) for subsequent periods of not more than 
    12 months each if, not less than 15 days before the renewal is to 
    take effect, the Secretary of State certifies to the appropriate 
    congressional committees and leadership that the government of the 
    country to which the waiver applies has effectively implemented and 
    is effectively enforcing the measures that formed the basis for the 
    certification under paragraph (2).
    (b) Waivers for National Security and Access to Prescription 
Medications.--
        (1) In general.--The President may waive the application of 
    sanctions under this subtitle if the President determines that the 
    application of such sanctions would harm--
            (A) the national security interests of the United States; 
        or
            (B) subject to paragraph (2), the access of United States 
        persons to prescription medications.
        (2) Monitoring.--The President shall establish a monitoring 
    program to verify that a person that receives a waiver under 
    paragraph (1)(B) is not trafficking illicit opioids.
        (3) Notification.--Not later than 15 days after making a 
    determination under paragraph (1), the President shall notify the 
    appropriate congressional committees and leadership of the 
    determination and the reasons for the determination.
    (c) Humanitarian Waiver.--The President may waive, for renewable 
periods of 180 days, the application of the sanctions under this 
subtitle if the President certifies to the appropriate congressional 
committees and leadership that the waiver is necessary for the 
provision of humanitarian assistance.
SEC. 7215. PROCEDURES FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.
    (a) In General.--If a finding under this subtitle, or a 
prohibition, condition, or penalty imposed as a result of any such 
finding, is based on classified information (as defined in section 1(a) 
of the Classified Information Procedures Act (18 U.S.C. App.)) and a 
court reviews the finding or the imposition of the prohibition, 
condition, or penalty, the President may submit such information to the 
court ex parte and in camera.
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed--
        (1) to confer or imply any right to judicial review of any 
    finding under this subtitle, or any prohibition, condition, or 
    penalty imposed as a result of any such finding; or
        (2) to limit or restrict any other practice, procedure, right, 
    remedy, or safeguard that--
            (A) relates to the protection of classified information; 
        and
            (B) is available to the United States in connection with 
        any type of administrative hearing, litigation, or other 
        proceeding.
SEC. 7216. BRIEFINGS ON IMPLEMENTATION.
    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
and every 180 days thereafter until the date that is 5 years after such 
date of enactment, the President, acting through the Secretary of State 
and the Director of National Intelligence, in coordination with the 
Secretary of the Treasury, shall provide to the appropriate 
congressional committees and leadership a comprehensive briefing on 
efforts to implement this subtitle.
SEC. 7217. INCLUSION OF ADDITIONAL MATERIAL IN INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS 
CONTROL STRATEGY REPORT.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that, in order 
to apply economic and other financial sanctions to foreign traffickers 
of illicit opioids to protect the national security, foreign policy, 
and economy of the United States--
        (1) the President should instruct the Secretary of State to 
    intensify diplomatic efforts, both in appropriate international 
    fora such as the United Nations, the Group of Seven, the Group of 
    Twenty, and trilaterally and bilaterally with partners of the 
    United States, to combat foreign opioid trafficking, including by 
    working to establish a multilateral sanctions regime with respect 
    to foreign opioid trafficking; and
        (2) the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary 
    of the Treasury, should intensify efforts to maintain and 
    strengthen the coalition of countries formed to combat foreign 
    opioid trafficking.
    (b) Amendment to Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.--Section 489(a) of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2291(a)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
        ``(9)(A) An assessment conducted by the Secretary of State, in 
    consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Director of 
    National Intelligence, of the extent to which any diplomatic 
    efforts described in section 7217(a) of the Fentanyl Sanctions Act 
    have been successful.
        ``(B) Each assessment required by subparagraph (A) shall 
    include an identification of--
            ``(i) the countries the governments of which have agreed to 
        undertake measures to apply economic or other financial 
        sanctions to foreign traffickers of illicit opioids and a 
        description of those measures; and
            ``(ii) the countries the governments of which have not 
        agreed to measures described in clause (i), and, with respect 
        to those countries, other measures the Secretary of State 
        recommends that the United States take to apply economic and 
        other financial sanctions to foreign traffickers of illicit 
        opioids.''.

    Subtitle B--Commission on Combating Synthetic Opioid Trafficking

SEC. 7221. COMMISSION ON COMBATING SYNTHETIC OPIOID TRAFFICKING.
    (a) Establishment.--
        (1) In general.--There is established a commission to develop a 
    consensus on a strategic approach to combating the flow of 
    synthetic opioids into the United States.
        (2) Designation.--The commission established under paragraph 
    (1) shall be known as the ``Commission on Combating Synthetic 
    Opioid Trafficking'' (in this section referred to as the 
    ``Commission'').
    (b) Membership.--
        (1) Composition.--
            (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
        Commission shall be composed of the following members:
                (i) The Director of the Office of National Drug Control 
            Policy.
                (ii) The Administrator of the Drug Enforcement 
            Administration.
                (iii) The Secretary of Homeland Security.
                (iv) The Secretary of Defense.
                (v) The Secretary of the Treasury.
                (vi) The Secretary of State.
                (vii) The Director of National Intelligence.
                (viii) Two members appointed by the majority leader of 
            the Senate, one of whom shall be a Member of the Senate and 
            one of whom shall not be.
                (ix) Two members appointed by the minority leader of 
            the Senate, one of whom shall be a Member of the Senate and 
            one of whom shall not be.
                (x) Two members appointed by the Speaker of the House 
            of Representatives, one of whom shall be a Member of the 
            House of Representatives and one of whom shall not be.
                (xi) Two members appointed by the minority leader of 
            the House of Representatives, one of whom shall be a Member 
            of the House of Representatives and one of whom shall not 
            be.
            (B)(i) The members of the Commission who are not Members of 
        Congress and who are appointed under clauses (viii) through 
        (xi) of subparagraph (A) shall be individuals who are 
        nationally recognized for expertise, knowledge, or experience 
        in--
                (I) transnational criminal organizations conducting 
            synthetic opioid trafficking;
                (II) the production, manufacturing, distribution, sale, 
            or transportation of synthetic opioids; or
                (III) relations between--

                    (aa) the United States; and
                    (bb) the People's Republic of China, Mexico, or any 
                other country of concern with respect to trafficking in 
                synthetic opioids.

            (ii) An official who appoints members of the Commission may 
        not appoint an individual as a member of the Commission if the 
        individual possesses any personal or financial interest in the 
        discharge of any of the duties of the Commission.
            (iii)(I) All members of the Commission described in clause 
        (i) shall possess an appropriate security clearance in 
        accordance with applicable provisions of law concerning the 
        handling of classified information.
            (II) For the purpose of facilitating the activities of the 
        Commission, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
        expedite to the fullest degree possible the processing of 
        security clearances that are necessary for members of the 
        Commission.
        (2) Co-chairs.--
            (A) In general.--The Commission shall have 2 co-chairs, 
        selected from among the members of the Commission, one of whom 
        shall be a member of the majority party and one of whom shall 
        be a member of the minority party.
            (B) Selection.--The individuals who serve as the co-chairs 
        of the Commission shall be jointly agreed upon by the 
        President, the majority leader of the Senate, the minority 
        leader of the Senate, the Speaker of the House of 
        Representatives, and the minority leader of the House of 
        Representatives.
    (c) Duties.--The duties of the Commission are as follows:
        (1) To define the core objectives and priorities of the 
    strategic approach described in subsection (a)(1).
        (2) To weigh the costs and benefits of various strategic 
    options to combat the flow of synthetic opioids from the People's 
    Republic of China, Mexico, and other countries of concern with 
    respect to trafficking in synthetic opioids.
        (3) To evaluate whether the options described in paragraph (2) 
    are exclusive or complementary, the best means for executing such 
    options, and how the United States should incorporate and implement 
    such options within the strategic approach described in subsection 
    (a)(1).
        (4) To review and make determinations on the difficult choices 
    present within such options, among them what norms-based regimes 
    the United States should seek to establish to encourage the 
    effective regulation of dangerous synthetic opioids.
        (5) To report on efforts by actors in the People's Republic of 
    China to subvert United States laws and to supply illicit synthetic 
    opioids to persons in the United States, including up-to-date 
    estimates of the scale of illicit synthetic opioids flows from the 
    People's Republic of China.
        (6) To report on the deficiencies in the regulation of 
    pharmaceutical and chemical production of controlled substances and 
    export controls with respect to such substances in the People's 
    Republic of China and other countries that allow opioid traffickers 
    to subvert such regulations and controls to traffic illicit opioids 
    into the United States.
        (7) To report on the scale of contaminated or counterfeit drugs 
    originating from Mexico, the People's Republic of China, India, and 
    other countries of concern with respect to the exportation of 
    contaminated or counterfeit drugs.
        (8) To report on how the United States could work more 
    effectively with subnational and local officials in the People's 
    Republic of China and other countries to combat the illicit 
    production of synthetic opioids.
        (9) In weighing the options for defending the United States 
    against the dangers of trafficking in synthetic opioids, to 
    consider possible structures and authorities that need to be 
    established, revised, or augmented within the Federal Government.
    (d) Functioning of Commission.--The provisions of subsections (c), 
(d), (e), (g), (h), (i), and (m) of section 1652 of the John S. McCain 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 
115-232) shall apply to the Commission to the same extent and in the 
same manner as such provisions apply to the commission established 
under that section, except that--
        (1) subsection (c)(1) of that section shall be applied and 
    administered by substituting ``30 days'' for ``45 days'';
        (2) subsection (g)(4)(A) of that section shall be applied and 
    administered by inserting ``and the Attorney General'' after 
    ``Secretary of Defense''; and
        (3) subsections (h)(2)(A) and (i)(1)(A) of that section shall 
    be applied and administered by substituting ``level V of the 
    Executive Schedule under section 5316'' for ``level IV of the 
    Executive Schedule under section 5315''.
    (e) Treatment of Information Provided to Commission.--
        (1) Information relating to national security.--
            (A) Responsibility of director of national intelligence.--
        The Director of National Intelligence shall assume 
        responsibility for the handling and disposition of any 
        information related to the national security of the United 
        States that is received, considered, or used by the Commission 
        under this section.
            (B) Access after termination of commission.--
        Notwithstanding any other provision of law, after the 
        termination of the Commission under subsection (h), only the 
        members and designated staff of the appropriate congressional 
        committees and leadership, the Director of National 
        Intelligence (and the designees of the Director), and such 
        other officials of the executive branch as the President may 
        designate shall have access to information related to the 
        national security of the United States that is received, 
        considered, or used by the Commission.
        (2) Information provided by congress.--The Commission may 
    obtain information from any Member, committee, or office of 
    Congress, including information related to the national security of 
    the United States, only with the consent of the Member, committee, 
    or office involved and only in accordance with any applicable rules 
    and procedures of the House of Representatives or Senate (as the 
    case may be) governing the provision of such information by 
    Members, committees, and offices of Congress to entities in the 
    executive branch.
    (f) Reports.--The Commission shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees and leadership--
        (1) not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of 
    this Act, an initial report on the activities and recommendations 
    of the Commission under this section; and
        (2) not later than 270 days after the submission of the initial 
    report under paragraph (1), a final report on the activities and 
    recommendations of the Commission under this section.
    (g) Termination.--
        (1) In general.--The Commission, and all the authorities of 
    this section, shall terminate at the end of the 120-day period 
    beginning on the date on which the final report required by 
    subsection (f)(2) is submitted to the appropriate congressional 
    committees and leadership.
        (2) Winding up of affairs.--The Commission may use the 120-day 
    period described in paragraph (1) for the purposes of concluding 
    its activities, including providing testimony to Congress 
    concerning the final report required by subsection (f)(2) and 
    disseminating the report.

                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

SEC. 7231. DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM ON USE OF 
INTELLIGENCE RESOURCES IN EFFORTS TO SANCTION FOREIGN OPIOID 
TRAFFICKERS.
    (a) Program Required.--
        (1) In general.--The Director of National Intelligence shall, 
    in consultation with the Director of the Office of National Drug 
    Control Policy, carry out a program to allocate and enhance use of 
    resources of the intelligence community, including intelligence 
    collection and analysis, to assist the Secretary of the Treasury, 
    the Secretary of State, and the Administrator of the Drug 
    Enforcement Administration in efforts to identify and impose 
    sanctions with respect to foreign opioid traffickers under subtitle 
    A.
        (2) Focus on illicit finance.--To the extent practicable, 
    efforts described in paragraph (1) shall--
            (A) take into account specific illicit finance risks 
        related to narcotics trafficking; and
            (B) be developed in consultation with the Undersecretary of 
        the Treasury for Terrorism and Financial Crimes, appropriate 
        officials of the Office of Intelligence and Analysis of the 
        Department of the Treasury, the Director of the Financial 
        Crimes Enforcement Network, and appropriate Federal law 
        enforcement agencies.
    (b) Review of Counternarcotics Efforts of the Intelligence 
Community.--The Director of National Intelligence shall, in 
coordination with the Director of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy, carry out a comprehensive review of the current intelligence 
collection priorities of the intelligence community for 
counternarcotics purposes in order to identify whether such priorities 
are appropriate and sufficient in light of the number of lives lost in 
the United States each year due to use of illegal drugs.
    (c) Reports.--
        (1) Quarterly reports on program.--Not later than 90 days after 
    the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 90 days 
    thereafter, the Director of National Intelligence and the Director 
    of the Office of National Drug Control Policy shall jointly submit 
    to the appropriate congressional committees and leadership a report 
    on the status and accomplishments of the program required by 
    subsection (a) during the 90-day period ending on the date of the 
    report. The first report under this paragraph shall also include a 
    description of the amount of funds devoted by the intelligence 
    community to the efforts described in subsection (a) during each of 
    fiscal years 2017 and 2018.
        (2) Report on review.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
    of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National 
    Intelligence, in consultation with the Director of the Office of 
    National Drug Control Policy and other relevant agencies, shall 
    submit to the appropriate congressional committees and leadership--
            (A) a comprehensive description of the results of the 
        review required by subsection (b); and
            (B) an assessment of whether--
                (i) the priorities described in that subsection are 
            appropriate and sufficient in light of the number of lives 
            lost in the United States each year due to use of illegal 
            drugs; and
                (ii) any changes to such priorities are necessary.
    (d) Intelligence Community Defined.--In this section, the term 
``intelligence community'' has the meaning given that term in section 
3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)).
SEC. 7232. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    (a) Department of the Treasury.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of the Treasury such sums as may be 
necessary for fiscal year 2020 to carry out operations and activities 
of the Department of the Treasury solely for purposes of carrying out 
this title.
    (b) Commission on Combating Synthetic Opioid Trafficking.--Of the 
amount authorized to be appropriated by section 1403 for fiscal year 
2020 and available for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, 
Defense-wide, as specified in the funding table in section 4501, the 
Secretary of Defense may, notwithstanding section 2215 of title 10, 
United States Code, transfer $5,000,000 to the Commission on Combating 
Synthetic Opioid Trafficking established under section 7221 in order to 
carry out the duties of the Commission.
    (c) Supplement Not Supplant.--Amounts authorized to be appropriated 
by subsection (a) shall supplement and not supplant other amounts 
available to carry out operations and activities described in such 
subsections.
    (d) Notification Requirement.--Amounts authorized to be 
appropriated by subsection (a) may not be obligated until 15 days after 
the date on which the President notifies the appropriate committees of 
Congress of the President's intention to obligate such funds.
    (e) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Banking, 
    Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Relations, the 
    Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on the Judiciary, 
    and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Financial 
    Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Permanent Select 
    Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Oversight and Reform, 
    and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
    Representatives.
SEC. 7233. REGULATORY AUTHORITY.
    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the President shall issue such regulations as are necessary to carry 
out this title, including guidance with respect to what activities are 
included under the definition of ``opioid trafficking'' under section 
7203(8).
SEC. 7234. TERMINATION.
    The provisions of this title, and any sanctions imposed pursuant to 
this title, shall terminate on the date that is 7 years after the date 
of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 7235. EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTATION OF GOODS.
    (a) In General.--The authorities and requirements to impose 
sanctions under this title shall not include the authority or a 
requirement to impose sanctions on the importation of goods.
    (b) Good Defined.--In this section, the term ``good'' means any 
article, natural or manmade substance, material, supply, or 
manufactured product, including inspection and test equipment, and 
excluding technical data.

                           TITLE LXXIII--PFAS

Sec. 7301. Short title.
Sec. 7302. Definition of Administrator.

                       Subtitle A--Drinking Water

Sec. 7311. Monitoring and detection.
Sec. 7312. Drinking water state revolving funds.

                   Subtitle B--PFAS Release Disclosure

Sec. 7321. Additions to toxics release inventory.

                  Subtitle C--USGS Performance Standard

Sec. 7331. Definitions.
Sec. 7332. Performance standard for the detection of highly fluorinated 
          compounds.
Sec. 7333. Nationwide sampling.
Sec. 7334. Data usage.
Sec. 7335. Collaboration.

                    Subtitle D--Emerging Contaminants

Sec. 7341. Definitions.
Sec. 7342. Research and coordination plan for enhanced response on 
          emerging contaminants.

                Subtitle E--Toxic Substances Control Act

Sec. 7351. PFAS data call.
Sec. 7352. Significant new use rule for long-chain PFAS.

                        Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 7361. PFAS destruction and disposal guidance.
Sec. 7362. PFAS research and development.
SEC. 7301. SHORT TITLE.
    This title may be cited as the ``PFAS Act of 2019''.
SEC. 7302. DEFINITION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
    In this title, the term ``Administrator'' means the Administrator 
of the Environmental Protection Agency.

                       Subtitle A--Drinking Water

SEC. 7311. MONITORING AND DETECTION.
    (a) Monitoring Program for Unregulated Contaminants.--
        (1) In general.--The Administrator shall include each substance 
    described in paragraph (2) in the fifth publication of the list of 
    unregulated contaminants to be monitored under section 
    1445(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-
    4(a)(2)(B)(i)).
        (2) Substances described.--The substances referred to in 
    paragraph (1) are perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances and 
    classes of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances--
            (A) for which a method to measure the level in drinking 
        water has been validated by the Administrator; and
            (B) that are not subject to a national primary drinking 
        water regulation.
        (3) Exception.--The perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl 
    substances and classes of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl 
    substances included in the list of unregulated contaminants to be 
    monitored under section 1445(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Safe Drinking Water 
    Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-4(a)(2)(B)(i)) under paragraph (1) shall not 
    count towards the limit of 30 unregulated contaminants to be 
    monitored by public water systems under that section.
    (b) Applicability.--
        (1) In general.--The Administrator shall--
            (A) require public water systems serving more than 10,000 
        persons to monitor for the substances described in subsection 
        (a)(2);
            (B) subject to paragraph (2) and the availability of 
        appropriations, require public water systems serving not fewer 
        than 3,300 and not more than 10,000 persons to monitor for the 
        substances described in subsection (a)(2); and
            (C) subject to paragraph (2) and the availability of 
        appropriations, ensure that only a representative sample of 
        public water systems serving fewer than 3,300 persons are 
        required to monitor for the substances described in subsection 
        (a)(2).
        (2) Requirement.--If the Administrator determines that there is 
    not sufficient laboratory capacity to carry out the monitoring 
    required under subparagraphs (B) and (C) of paragraph (1), the 
    Administrator may waive the monitoring requirements in those 
    subparagraphs.
        (3) Funds.--The Administrator shall pay the reasonable cost of 
    such testing and laboratory analysis as is necessary to carry out 
    the monitoring required under subparagraphs (B) and (C) of 
    paragraph (1) using--
            (A) funds made available pursuant to subsection (a)(2)(H) 
        or subsection (j)(5) of section 1445 of the Safe Drinking Water 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-4); or
            (B) any other funds made available for that purpose.
SEC. 7312. DRINKING WATER STATE REVOLVING FUNDS.
    Section 1452 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-12) is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(2), by adding at the end the following:
            ``(G) Emerging contaminants.--
                ``(i) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision 
            of law and subject to clause (ii), amounts deposited under 
            subsection (t) in a State loan fund established under this 
            section may only be used to provide grants for the purpose 
            of addressing emerging contaminants, with a focus on 
            perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances.
                ``(ii) Requirements.--

                    ``(I) Small and disadvantaged communities.--Not 
                less than 25 percent of the amounts described in clause 
                (i) shall be used to provide grants to--

                        ``(aa) disadvantaged communities (as defined in 
                    subsection (d)(3)); or
                        ``(bb) public water systems serving fewer than 
                    25,000 persons.

                    ``(II) Priorities.--In selecting the recipient of a 
                grant using amounts described in clause (i), a State 
                shall use the priorities described in subsection 
                (b)(3)(A).

                ``(iii) No increased bonding authority.--The amounts 
            deposited in the State loan fund of a State under 
            subsection (t) may not be used as a source of payment of, 
            or security for (directly or indirectly), in whole or in 
            part, any obligation the interest on which is exempt from 
            the tax imposed under chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue 
            Code of 1986.'';
        (2) in subsection (m)(1), in the matter preceding subparagraph 
    (A), by striking ``this section'' and inserting ``this section, 
    except for subsections (a)(2)(G) and (t)''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(t) Emerging Contaminants.--
        ``(1) In general.--Amounts made available under this subsection 
    shall be allotted to a State as if allotted under subsection 
    (a)(1)(D) as a capitalization grant, for deposit into the State 
    loan fund of the State, for the purposes described in subsection 
    (a)(2)(G).
        ``(2) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized to 
    be appropriated to carry out this subsection $100,000,000 for each 
    of fiscal years 2020 through 2024, to remain available until 
    expended.''.

                  Subtitle B--PFAS Release Disclosure

SEC. 7321. ADDITIONS TO TOXICS RELEASE INVENTORY.
    (a) Definition of Toxics Release Inventory.--In this section, the 
term ``toxics release inventory'' means the list of toxic chemicals 
subject to the requirements of section 313(c) of the Emergency Planning 
and Community Right-To-Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(c)).
    (b) Immediate Inclusion.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to subsection (e), beginning January 1 
    of the calendar year following the date of enactment of this Act, 
    the following chemicals shall be deemed to be included in the 
    toxics release inventory:
            (A) Perfluorooctanoic acid (commonly referred to as 
        ``PFOA'') (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 335-67-1).
            (B) The salts associated with the chemical described in 
        subparagraph (A) (Chemical Abstracts Service Nos. 3825-26-1, 
        335-95-5, and 68141-02-6).
            (C) Perfluorooctane sulfonic acid (commonly referred to as 
        ``PFOS'') (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 1763-23-1).
            (D) The salts associated with the chemical described in 
        subparagraph (C) (Chemical Abstracts Service Nos. 2795-39-3, 
        29457-72-5, 56773-42-3, 29081-56-9, and 70225-14-8).
            (E) A perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class 
        of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances that is--
                (i) listed as an active chemical substance in the 
            February 2019 update to the inventory under section 8(b)(1) 
            of the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2607(b)(1)); 
            and
                (ii) on the date of enactment of this Act, subject to 
            the provisions of--

                    (I) section 721.9582 of title 40, Code of Federal 
                Regulations; or
                    (II) section 721.10536 of title 40, Code of Federal 
                Regulations.

            (F) Hexafluoropropylene oxide dimer acid (commonly referred 
        to as ``GenX'') (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 13252-13-6).
            (G) The compound associated with the chemical described in 
        subparagraph (F) identified by Chemical Abstracts Service No. 
        62037-80-3.
            (H) Perfluorononanoic acid (commonly referred to as 
        ``PFNA'') (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 375-95-1).
            (I) Perfluorohexanesulfonic acid (commonly referred to as 
        ``PFHxS'') (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 355-46-4).
        (2) Threshold for reporting.--
            (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the threshold 
        for reporting the chemicals described in paragraph (1) under 
        section 313 of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-To-
        Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023) is 100 pounds.
            (B) Revisions.--Not later than 5 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall--
                (i) determine whether revision of the threshold under 
            subparagraph (A) is warranted for any chemical described in 
            paragraph (1); and
                (ii) if the Administrator determines a revision to be 
            warranted under clause (i), initiate a revision under 
            section 313(f)(2) of the Emergency Planning and Community 
            Right-To-Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(f)(2)).
    (c) Inclusion Following Assessment.--
        (1) In general.--
            (A) Date of inclusion.--Subject to subsection (e), 
        notwithstanding section 313 of the Emergency Planning and 
        Community Right-To-Know Act of 1986, a perfluoroalkyl or 
        polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or 
        polyfluoroalkyl substances not described in subsection (b)(1) 
        shall be deemed to be included in the toxics release inventory 
        beginning January 1 of the calendar year after any of the 
        following dates:
                (i) Final toxicity value.--The date on which the 
            Administrator finalizes a toxicity value for the 
            perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of 
            perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances.
                (ii) Significant new use rule.--The date on which the 
            Administrator makes a covered determination for the 
            perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of 
            perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances.
                (iii) Addition to existing significant new use rule.--
            The date on which the perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl 
            substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl 
            substances is added to a list of substances covered by a 
            covered determination.
                (iv) Addition as active chemical substance.--The date 
            on which the perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or 
            class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances to 
            which a covered determination applies is--

                    (I) added to the list published under paragraph (1) 
                of section 8(b) of the Toxic Substances Control Act and 
                designated as an active chemical substance under 
                paragraph (5)(A) of such section; or
                    (II) designated as an active chemical substance on 
                such list under paragraph (5)(B) of such section.

            (B) Covered determination.--For purposes of this paragraph, 
        a covered determination is a determination made, by rule, under 
        section 5(a)(2) of the Toxic Substances Control Act that a use 
        of a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of 
        perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances is a significant 
        new use (except such a determination made in connection with a 
        determination described in section 5(a)(3)(B) or section 
        5(a)(3)(C) of such Act).
        (2) Threshold for reporting.--
            (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), 
        notwithstanding subsection (f)(1) of section 313 of the 
        Emergency Planning and Community Right-To-Know Act of 1986 (42 
        U.S.C. 11023), the threshold for reporting under such section 
        313 the substances and classes of substances included in the 
        toxics release inventory under paragraph (1) is 100 pounds.
            (B) Revisions.--Not later than 5 years after the date on 
        which a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of 
        perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances is included in the 
        toxics release inventory under paragraph (1), the Administrator 
        shall--
                (i) determine whether revision of the threshold under 
            subparagraph (A) is warranted for the substance or class of 
            substances; and
                (ii) if the Administrator determines a revision to be 
            warranted under clause (i), initiate a revision under 
            section 313(f)(2) of the Emergency Planning and Community 
            Right-To-Know Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(f)(2)).
    (d) Inclusion Following Determination.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
    enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall determine whether 
    the substances and classes of substances described in paragraph (2) 
    meet any one of the criteria described in section 313(d)(2) of the 
    Emergency Planning and Community Right-To-Know Act of 1986 (42 
    U.S.C. 11023(d)(2)) for inclusion in the toxics release inventory.
        (2) Substances described.--The substances and classes of 
    substances referred to in paragraph (1) are perfluoroalkyl and 
    polyfluoroalkyl substances and classes of perfluoroalkyl and 
    polyfluoroalkyl substances not described in subsection (b)(1), 
    including--
            (A) perfluoro[(2-pentafluoroethoxy-ethoxy)acetic acid] 
        ammonium salt (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 908020-52-0);
            (B) 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro 2-(1,1,2,3,3,3-hexafluoro)-2-
        (trifluoromethoxy) propanoyl fluoride (Chemical Abstracts 
        Service No. 2479-75-6);
            (C) 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro 2-(1,1,2,3,3,3-hexafluoro)-2-
        (trifluoromethoxy) propionic acid (Chemical Abstracts Service 
        No. 2479-73-4);
            (D) 3H-perfluoro-3-[(3-methoxy-propoxy) propanoic acid] 
        (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 919005-14-4);
            (E) the salts associated with the chemical described in 
        subparagraph (D) (Chemical Abstracts Service Nos. 958445-44-8, 
        1087271-46-2, and NOCAS 892452);
            (F) 1-octanesulfonic acid 3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8-
        tridecafluoro-potassium salt (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 
        59587-38-1);
            (G) perfluorobutanesulfonic acid (Chemical Abstracts 
        Service No. 375-73-5);
            (H) 1-Butanesulfonic acid, 1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,4-nonafluoro-
        potassium salt (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 29420-49-3);
            (I) the component associated with the chemical described in 
        subparagraph (H) (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 45187-15-3);
            (J) heptafluorobutyric acid (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 
        375-22-4);
            (K) perfluorohexanoic acid (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 
        307-24-4);
            (L) the compound associated with the chemical described in 
        subsection (b)(1)(F) identified by Chemical Abstracts Service 
        No. 2062-98-8;
            (M) perfluoroheptanoic acid (commonly referred to as 
        ``PFHpA'') (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 375-85-9);
            (N) each perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or 
        class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances for which 
        a method to measure levels in drinking water has been validated 
        by the Administrator; and
            (O) a perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substance or class 
        of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances other than the 
        chemicals described in subparagraphs (A) through (N) that is 
        used to manufacture fluorinated polymers, as determined by the 
        Administrator.
        (3) Addition to toxics release inventory.--Subject to 
    subsection (e), if the Administrator determines under paragraph (1) 
    that a substance or a class of substances described in paragraph 
    (2) meets any one of the criteria described in section 313(d)(2) of 
    the Emergency Planning and Community Right-To-Know Act of 1986 (42 
    U.S.C. 11023(d)(2)), the Administrator shall revise the toxics 
    release inventory in accordance with such section 313(d) to include 
    that substance or class of substances not later than 2 years after 
    the date on which the Administrator makes the determination.
    (e) Confidential Business Information.--
        (1) In general.--Prior to including on the toxics release 
    inventory pursuant to subsection (b)(1), (c)(1), or (d)(3) any 
    perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of 
    perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances the chemical identity 
    of which is subject to a claim of a person of protection from 
    disclosure under subsection (a) of section 552 of title 5, United 
    States Code, pursuant to subsection (b)(4) of that section, the 
    Administrator shall--
            (A) review any such claim of protection from disclosure; 
        and
            (B) require that person to reassert and substantiate or 
        resubstantiate that claim in accordance with section 14(f) of 
        the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2613(f)).
        (2) Nondisclosure of protection information.--If the 
    Administrator determines that the chemical identity of a 
    perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of 
    perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances qualifies for 
    protection from disclosure pursuant to paragraph (1), the 
    Administrator shall include the substance or class of substances, 
    as applicable, on the toxics release inventory in a manner that 
    does not disclose the protected information.
    (f) Emergency Planning and Community Right-To-Know Act of 1986.--
Section 313(c) of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-To-Know 
Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11023(c)) is amended--
        (1) by striking the period at the end and inserting ``; and'';
        (2) by striking ``are those chemicals'' and inserting the 
    following: ``are--
        ``(1) the chemicals''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(2) the chemicals included on such list under subsections 
    (b)(1), (c)(1), and (d)(3) of section 7321 of the PFAS Act of 
    2019.''.

                 Subtitle C--USGS Performance Standard

SEC. 7331. DEFINITIONS.
    In this subtitle:
        (1) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of the 
    United States Geological Survey.
        (2) Highly fluorinated compound.--
            (A) In general.--The term ``highly fluorinated compound'' 
        means a perfluoroalkyl substance or a polyfluoroalkyl substance 
        with at least one fully fluorinated carbon atom.
            (B) Definitions.--In this paragraph:
                (i) Fully fluorinated carbon atom.--The term ``fully 
            fluorinated carbon atom'' means a carbon atom on which all 
            the hydrogen substituents have been replaced by fluorine.
                (ii) Perfluoroalkyl substance.--The term 
            ``perfluoroalkyl substance'' means a chemical of which all 
            of the carbon atoms are fully fluorinated carbon atoms.
                (iii) Polyfluoroalkyl substance.--The term 
            ``polyfluoroalkyl substance'' means a chemical containing 
            at least one fully fluorinated carbon atom and at least one 
            carbon atom that is not a fully fluorinated carbon atom.
SEC. 7332. PERFORMANCE STANDARD FOR THE DETECTION OF HIGHLY FLUORINATED 
COMPOUNDS.
    (a) In General.--The Director, in consultation with the 
Administrator, shall establish a performance standard for the detection 
of highly fluorinated compounds.
    (b) Emphasis.--
        (1) In general.--In developing the performance standard under 
    subsection (a), the Director shall emphasize the ability to detect 
    as many highly fluorinated compounds present in the environment as 
    possible using validated analytical methods that--
            (A) achieve limits of quantitation (as defined in the 
        document of the United States Geological Survey entitled 
        ``Analytical Methods for Chemical Analysis of Geologic and 
        Other Materials, U.S. Geological Survey'' and dated 2002); and
            (B) are as sensitive as is feasible and practicable.
        (2) Requirement.--In developing the performance standard under 
    subsection (a), the Director may--
            (A) develop quality assurance and quality control measures 
        to ensure accurate sampling and testing;
            (B) develop a training program with respect to the 
        appropriate method of sample collection and analysis of highly 
        fluorinated compounds; and
            (C) coordinate as necessary with the Administrator, 
        including, if appropriate, to develop methods to detect 
        individual and different highly fluorinated compounds 
        simultaneously.
SEC. 7333. NATIONWIDE SAMPLING.
    (a) In General.--The Director shall carry out a nationwide sampling 
to determine the concentration of highly fluorinated compounds in 
estuaries, lakes, streams, springs, wells, wetlands, rivers, aquifers, 
and soil using the performance standard developed under section 
7332(a).
    (b) Requirements.--In carrying out the sampling under subsection 
(a), the Director shall--
        (1) first carry out the sampling at sources of drinking water 
    near locations with known or suspected releases of highly 
    fluorinated compounds;
        (2) when carrying out sampling of sources of drinking water 
    under paragraph (1), carry out the sampling prior to and, at the 
    request of the Administrator, after any treatment of the water;
        (3) survey for ecological exposure to highly fluorinated 
    compounds, with a priority in determining direct human exposure 
    through drinking water; and
        (4) consult with--
            (A) States to determine areas that are a priority for 
        sampling; and
            (B) the Administrator--
                (i) to enhance coverage of the sampling; and
                (ii) to avoid unnecessary duplication.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the completion of the 
sampling under subsection (a), the Director shall prepare a report 
describing the results of the sampling and submit the report to--
        (1) the Committee on Environment and Public Works and the 
    Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate;
        (2) the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Committee on 
    Natural Resources of the House of Representatives;
        (3) the Senators of each State in which the Director carried 
    out the sampling; and
        (4) each Member of the House of Representatives who represents 
    a district in which the Director carried out the sampling.
SEC. 7334. DATA USAGE.
    (a) In General.--The Director shall provide the sampling data 
collected under section 7333 to--
        (1) the Administrator; and
        (2) other Federal and State regulatory agencies on request.
    (b) Usage.--The sampling data provided under subsection (a) shall 
be used to inform and enhance assessments of exposure, likely health 
and environmental impacts, and remediation priorities.
SEC. 7335. COLLABORATION.
    In carrying out this subtitle, the Director shall collaborate 
with--
        (1) appropriate Federal and State regulators;
        (2) institutions of higher education;
        (3) research institutions; and
        (4) other expert stakeholders.

                   Subtitle D--Emerging Contaminants

SEC. 7341. DEFINITIONS.
    In this subtitle:
        (1) Contaminant.--The term ``contaminant'' means any physical, 
    chemical, biological, or radiological substance or matter in water.
        (2) Contaminant of emerging concern; emerging contaminant.--The 
    terms ``contaminant of emerging concern'' and ``emerging 
    contaminant'' mean a contaminant--
            (A) for which the Administrator has not promulgated a 
        national primary drinking water regulation; and
            (B) that may have an adverse effect on the health of 
        individuals.
        (3) Federal research strategy.--The term ``Federal research 
    strategy'' means the coordinated cross-agency plan for addressing 
    critical research gaps related to detecting, assessing exposure to, 
    and identifying the adverse health effects of emerging contaminants 
    in drinking water developed by the Office of Science and Technology 
    Policy in response to the report of the Committee on Appropriations 
    of the Senate accompanying S. 1662 of the 115th Congress (S. Rept. 
    115-139).
        (4) Technical assistance and support.--The term ``technical 
    assistance and support'' includes--
            (A) assistance with--
                (i) identifying appropriate analytical methods for the 
            detection of contaminants;
                (ii) understanding the strengths and limitations of the 
            analytical methods described in clause (i);
                (iii) troubleshooting the analytical methods described 
            in clause (i);
            (B) providing advice on laboratory certification program 
        elements;
            (C) interpreting sample analysis results;
            (D) providing training with respect to proper analytical 
        techniques;
            (E) identifying appropriate technology for the treatment of 
        contaminants; and
            (F) analyzing samples, if--
                (i) the analysis cannot be otherwise obtained in a 
            practicable manner otherwise; and
                (ii) the capability and capacity to perform the 
            analysis is available at a Federal facility.
        (5) Working group.--The term ``Working Group'' means the 
    Working Group established under section 7342(b)(1).
SEC. 7342. RESEARCH AND COORDINATION PLAN FOR ENHANCED RESPONSE ON 
EMERGING CONTAMINANTS.
    (a) In General.--The Administrator shall--
        (1) review Federal efforts--
            (A) to identify, monitor, and assist in the development of 
        treatment methods for emerging contaminants; and
            (B) to assist States in responding to the human health 
        risks posed by contaminants of emerging concern; and
        (2) in collaboration with owners and operators of public water 
    systems, States, and other interested stakeholders, establish a 
    strategic plan for improving the Federal efforts referred to in 
    paragraph (1).
    (b) Interagency Working Group on Emerging Contaminants.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
    enactment of this Act, the Administrator and the Secretary of 
    Health and Human Services shall jointly establish a Working Group 
    to coordinate the activities of the Federal Government to identify 
    and analyze the public health effects of drinking water 
    contaminants of emerging concern.
        (2) Membership.--The Working Group shall include 
    representatives of the following:
            (A) The Environmental Protection Agency, appointed by the 
        Administrator.
            (B) The following agencies, appointed by the Secretary of 
        Health and Human Services:
                (i) The National Institutes of Health.
                (ii) The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
                (iii) The Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease 
            Registry.
            (C) The United States Geological Survey, appointed by the 
        Secretary of the Interior.
            (D) Any other Federal agency the assistance of which the 
        Administrator determines to be necessary to carry out this 
        subsection, appointed by the head of the respective agency.
        (3) Existing working group.--The Administrator may expand or 
    modify the duties of an existing working group to perform the 
    duties of the Working Group under this subsection.
    (c) National Emerging Contaminant Research Initiative.--
        (1) Federal research strategy.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Science 
        and Technology Policy (referred to in this subsection as the 
        ``Director'') shall coordinate with the heads of the agencies 
        described in subparagraph (C) to establish a research 
        initiative, to be known as the ``National Emerging Contaminant 
        Research Initiative'', that shall--
                (i) use the Federal research strategy to improve the 
            identification, analysis, monitoring, and treatment methods 
            of contaminants of emerging concern; and
                (ii) develop any necessary program, policy, or budget 
            to support the implementation of the Federal research 
            strategy, including mechanisms for joint agency review of 
            research proposals, for interagency cofunding of research 
            activities, and for information sharing across agencies.
            (B) Research on emerging contaminants.--In carrying out 
        subparagraph (A), the Director shall--
                (i) take into consideration consensus conclusions from 
            peer-reviewed, pertinent research on emerging contaminants; 
            and
                (ii) in consultation with the Administrator, identify 
            priority emerging contaminants for research emphasis.
            (C) Federal participation.--The agencies referred to in 
        subparagraph (A) include--
                (i) the National Science Foundation;
                (ii) the National Institutes of Health;
                (iii) the Environmental Protection Agency;
                (iv) the National Institute of Standards and 
            Technology;
                (v) the United States Geological Survey; and
                (vi) any other Federal agency that contributes to 
            research in water quality, environmental exposures, and 
            public health, as determined by the Director.
            (D) Participation from additional entities.--In carrying 
        out subparagraph (A), the Director shall consult with 
        nongovernmental organizations, State and local governments, and 
        science and research institutions determined by the Director to 
        have scientific or material interest in the National Emerging 
        Contaminant Research Initiative.
        (2) Implementation of research recommendations.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date on 
        which the Director and heads of the agencies described in 
        paragraph (1)(C) establish the National Emerging Contaminant 
        Research Initiative under paragraph (1)(A), the head of each 
        agency described in paragraph (1)(C) shall--
                (i) issue a solicitation for research proposals 
            consistent with the Federal research strategy and that 
            agency's mission; and
                (ii) make grants to applicants that submit research 
            proposals consistent with the Federal research strategy and 
            in accordance with subparagraph (B).
            (B) Selection of research proposals.--The head of each 
        agency described in paragraph (1)(C) shall select research 
        proposals to receive grants under this paragraph on the basis 
        of merit, using criteria identified by the head of each such 
        agency, including the likelihood that the proposed research 
        will result in significant progress toward achieving the 
        objectives identified in the Federal research strategy.
            (C) Eligible entities.--Any entity or group of 2 or more 
        entities may submit to the head of each agency described in 
        paragraph (1)(C) a research proposal in response to the 
        solicitation for research proposals described in subparagraph 
        (A)(i), including, consistent with that agency's grant 
        policies--
                (i) State and local agencies;
                (ii) public institutions, including public institutions 
            of higher education;
                (iii) private corporations; and
                (iv) nonprofit organizations.
    (d) Federal Technical Assistance and Support for States.--
        (1) Study.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall conduct a study 
        on actions the Administrator can take to increase technical 
        assistance and support for States with respect to emerging 
        contaminants in drinking water samples.
            (B) Contents of study.--In carrying out the study described 
        in subparagraph (A), the Administrator shall identify--
                (i) methods and effective treatment options to increase 
            technical assistance and support with respect to emerging 
            contaminants to States, including identifying opportunities 
            for States to improve communication with various audiences 
            about the risks associated with emerging contaminants;
                (ii) means to facilitate access to qualified contract 
            testing laboratory facilities that conduct analyses for 
            emerging contaminants; and
                (iii) actions to be carried out at existing Federal 
            laboratory facilities, including the research facilities of 
            the Administrator, to provide technical assistance and 
            support for States that require testing facilities for 
            emerging contaminants.
            (C) Availability of analytical resources.--In carrying out 
        the study described in subparagraph (A), the Administrator 
        shall consider--
                (i) the availability of--

                    (I) Federal and non-Federal laboratory capacity; 
                and
                    (II) validated methods to detect and analyze 
                contaminants; and

                (ii) other factors determined to be appropriate by the 
            Administrator.
        (2) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
    enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to Congress a 
    report describing the results of the study described in paragraph 
    (1).
        (3) Program to provide federal assistance to states.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, based on the findings in the report 
        described in paragraph (2), the Administrator shall develop a 
        program to provide technical assistance and support to eligible 
        States for the testing and analysis of emerging contaminants.
            (B) Application.--
                (i) In general.--To be eligible for technical 
            assistance and support under this paragraph, a State shall 
            submit to the Administrator an application at such time, in 
            such manner, and containing such information as the 
            Administrator may require.
                (ii) Criteria.--The Administrator shall evaluate an 
            application for technical assistance and support under this 
            paragraph on the basis of merit using criteria identified 
            by the Administrator, including--

                    (I) the laboratory facilities available to the 
                State;
                    (II) the availability and applicability of existing 
                analytical methodologies;
                    (III) the potency and severity of the emerging 
                contaminant, if known; and
                    (IV) the prevalence and magnitude of the emerging 
                contaminant.

                (iii) Prioritization.--In selecting States to receive 
            technical assistance and support under this paragraph, the 
            Administrator--

                    (I) shall give priority to States with affected 
                areas primarily in financially distressed communities;
                    (II) may--

                        (aa) waive the application process in an 
                    emergency situation; and
                        (bb) require an abbreviated application process 
                    for the continuation of work specified in a 
                    previously approved application that continues to 
                    meet the criteria described in clause (ii); and

                    (III) shall consider the relative expertise and 
                availability of--

                        (aa) Federal and non-Federal laboratory 
                    capacity available to the State;
                        (bb) analytical resources available to the 
                    State; and
                        (cc) other types of technical assistance 
                    available to the State.
            (C) Database of available resources.--The Administrator 
        shall establish and maintain a database of resources available 
        through the program developed under subparagraph (A) to assist 
        States with testing for emerging contaminants that--
                (i) is--

                    (I) available to States and stakeholder groups 
                determined by the Administrator to have scientific or 
                material interest in emerging contaminants, including--

                        (aa) drinking water and wastewater utilities;
                        (bb) laboratories;
                        (cc) Federal and State emergency responders;
                        (dd) State primacy agencies;
                        (ee) public health agencies; and
                        (ff) water associations;

                    (II) searchable; and
                    (III) accessible through the website of the 
                Administrator; and

                (ii) includes a description of--

                    (I) qualified contract testing laboratory 
                facilities that conduct analyses for emerging 
                contaminants; and
                    (II) the resources available in Federal laboratory 
                facilities to test for emerging contaminants.

            (D) Water contaminant information tool.--The Administrator 
        shall integrate the database established under subparagraph (C) 
        into the Water Contaminant Information Tool of the 
        Environmental Protection Agency.
        (4) Funding.--Of the amounts available to the Administrator, 
    the Administrator may use not more than $15,000,000 in a fiscal 
    year to carry out this subsection.
    (e) Report.--Not less frequently than once every 2 years until 
2029, the Administrator shall submit to Congress a report that 
describes the progress made in carrying out this subtitle.
    (f) Effect.--Nothing in this section modifies any obligation of a 
State, local government, or Indian Tribe with respect to treatment 
methods for, or testing or monitoring of, drinking water.

                Subtitle E--Toxic Substances Control Act

SEC. 7351. PFAS DATA CALL.
    Section 8(a) of the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 
2607(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
        ``(7) PFAS data.--Not later than January 1, 2023, the 
    Administrator shall promulgate a rule in accordance with this 
    subsection requiring each person who has manufactured a chemical 
    substance that is a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance in 
    any year since January 1, 2011, to submit to the Administrator a 
    report that includes, for each year since January 1, 2011, the 
    information described in subparagraphs (A) through (G) of paragraph 
    (2).''.
SEC. 7352. SIGNIFICANT NEW USE RULE FOR LONG-CHAIN PFAS.
    Not later than June 22, 2020, the Administrator shall take final 
action on the proposed rule entitled ``Long-Chain Perfluoroalkyl 
Carboxylate and Perfluoroalkyl Sulfonate Chemical Substances; 
Significant New Use Rule'' (80 Fed. Reg. 2885 (January 21, 2015)).

                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

SEC. 7361. PFAS DESTRUCTION AND DISPOSAL GUIDANCE.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Administrator shall publish interim guidance on the 
destruction and disposal of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl 
substances and materials containing perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl 
substances, including--
        (1) aqueous film-forming foam;
        (2) soil and biosolids;
        (3) textiles, other than consumer goods, treated with 
    perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances;
        (4) spent filters, membranes, resins, granular carbon, and 
    other waste from water treatment;
        (5) landfill leachate containing perfluoroalkyl and 
    polyfluoroalkyl substances; and
        (6) solid, liquid, or gas waste streams containing 
    perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances from facilities 
    manufacturing or using perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl 
    substances.
    (b) Considerations; Inclusions.--The interim guidance under 
subsection (a) shall--
        (1) take into consideration--
            (A) the potential for releases of perfluoroalkyl and 
        polyfluoroalkyl substances during destruction or disposal, 
        including through volatilization, air dispersion, or leachate; 
        and
            (B) potentially vulnerable populations living near likely 
        destruction or disposal sites; and
        (2) provide guidance on testing and monitoring air, effluent, 
    and soil near potential destruction or disposal sites for releases 
    described in paragraph (1)(A).
    (c) Revisions.--The Administrator shall publish revisions to the 
interim guidance under subsection (a) as the Administrator determines 
to be appropriate, but not less frequently than once every 3 years.
SEC. 7362. PFAS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.
    (a) In General.--The Administrator, acting through the Assistant 
Administrator for the Office of Research and Development, shall--
        (1)(A) further examine the effects of perfluoroalkyl and 
    polyfluoroalkyl substances on human health and the environment; and
        (B) make publicly available information relating to the 
    findings under subparagraph (A);
        (2) develop a process for prioritizing which perfluoroalkyl and 
    polyfluoroalkyl substances, or classes of perfluoroalkyl and 
    polyfluoroalkyl substances, should be subject to additional 
    research efforts that is based on--
            (A) the potential for human exposure to the substances or 
        classes of substances;
            (B) the potential toxicity of the substances or classes of 
        substances; and
            (C) information available about the substances or classes 
        of substances;
        (3) develop new tools to characterize and identify 
    perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances in the environment, 
    including in drinking water, wastewater, surface water, 
    groundwater, solids, and the air;
        (4) evaluate approaches for the remediation of contamination by 
    perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances in the environment; 
    and
        (5) develop and implement new tools and materials to 
    communicate with the public about perfluoroalkyl and 
    polyfluoroalkyl substances.
    (b) Funding.--There is authorized to be appropriated to the 
Administrator to carry out this section $15,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2020 through 2024.

       TITLE LXXIV--CAESAR SYRIA CIVILIAN PROTECTION ACT OF 2019

Sec. 7401. Short title.
Sec. 7402. Statement of policy.

Subtitle A--Additional Actions in Connection With the National Emergency 
                          With Respect to Syria

Sec. 7411. Measures with respect to Central Bank of Syria.
Sec. 7412. Sanctions with respect to foreign persons that engage in 
          certain transactions.
Sec. 7413. Strategy relating to areas of Syria in which civilians are 
          subject to forced displacement.

             Subtitle B--Assistance for the People of Syria

Sec. 7421. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 7422. Briefing on monitoring and evaluating of ongoing assistance 
          programs in Syria and to the Syrian people.
Sec. 7423. Assessment of potential methods to enhance the protection of 
          civilians.
Sec. 7424. Assistance to support entities taking actions relating to 
          gathering evidence for investigations into war crimes or 
          crimes against humanity in Syria since March 2011.
Sec. 7425. Codification of certain services in support of 
          nongovernmental organizations' activities authorized.
Sec. 7426. Briefing on strategy to facilitate humanitarian assistance.

                     Subtitle C--General Provisions

Sec. 7431. Suspension of sanctions.
Sec. 7432. Waivers and exemptions.
Sec. 7433. Implementation and regulatory authorities.
Sec. 7434. Exception relating to importation of goods.
Sec. 7435. Cost limitation.
Sec. 7436. Rule of construction.
Sec. 7437. Prohibition on construction of provisions of this title as an 
          authorization for use of military force.
Sec. 7438. Sunset.
SEC. 7401. SHORT TITLE.
    This title may be cited as the ``Caesar Syria Civilian Protection 
Act of 2019''.
SEC. 7402. STATEMENT OF POLICY.
    It is the policy of the United States that diplomatic and coercive 
economic means should be utilized to compel the government of Bashar 
al-Assad to halt its murderous attacks on the Syrian people and to 
support a transition to a government in Syria that respects the rule of 
law, human rights, and peaceful co-existence with its neighbors.

    Subtitle A--Additional Actions in Connection With the National 
                    Emergency With Respect to Syria

SEC. 7411. MEASURES WITH RESPECT TO CENTRAL BANK OF SYRIA.
    (a) Determination Regarding Central Bank of Syria.--Not later than 
180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
the Treasury shall determine, under section 5318A of title 31, United 
States Code, whether reasonable grounds exist for concluding that the 
Central Bank of Syria is a financial institution of primary money 
laundering concern.
    (b) Enhanced Due Diligence and Reporting Requirements.--If the 
Secretary of the Treasury determines under subsection (a) that 
reasonable grounds exist for concluding that the Central Bank of Syria 
is a financial institution of primary money laundering concern, the 
Secretary, in consultation with the Federal functional regulators (as 
defined in section 509 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6809)), 
shall impose one or more of the special measures described in section 
5318A(b) of title 31, United States Code, with respect to the Central 
Bank of Syria.
    (c) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after making a 
    determination under subsection (a) with respect to whether the 
    Central Bank of Syria is a financial institution of primary money 
    laundering concern, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to 
    the appropriate congressional committees a report that includes the 
    reasons for the determination.
        (2) Form.--A report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
        (3) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
    subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
    means--
            (A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on 
        Financial Services of the House of Representatives; and
            (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
        Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.
SEC. 7412. SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FOREIGN PERSONS THAT ENGAGE IN 
CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS.
    (a) Imposition of Sanctions.--
        (1) In general.--On and after the date that is 180 days after 
    the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall impose 
    the sanctions described in subsection (b) with respect to a foreign 
    person if the President determines that the foreign person, on or 
    after such date of enactment, knowingly engages in an activity 
    described in paragraph (2).
        (2) Activities described.--A foreign person engages in an 
    activity described in this paragraph if the foreign person--
            (A) knowingly provides significant financial, material, or 
        technological support to, or knowingly engages in a significant 
        transaction with--
                (i) the Government of Syria (including any entity owned 
            or controlled by the Government of Syria) or a senior 
            political figure of the Government of Syria;
                (ii) a foreign person that is a military contractor, 
            mercenary, or a paramilitary force knowingly operating in a 
            military capacity inside Syria for or on behalf of the 
            Government of Syria, the Government of the Russian 
            Federation, or the Government of Iran; or
                (iii) a foreign person subject to sanctions pursuant to 
            the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 
            1701 et seq.) with respect to Syria or any other provision 
            of law that imposes sanctions with respect to Syria;
            (B) knowingly sells or provides significant goods, 
        services, technology, information, or other support that 
        significantly facilitates the maintenance or expansion of the 
        Government of Syria's domestic production of natural gas, 
        petroleum, or petroleum products;
            (C) knowingly sells or provides aircraft or spare aircraft 
        parts that are used for military purposes in Syria for or on 
        behalf of the Government of Syria to any foreign person 
        operating in an area directly or indirectly controlled by the 
        Government of Syria or foreign forces associated with the 
        Government of Syria;
            (D) knowingly provides significant goods or services 
        associated with the operation of aircraft that are used for 
        military purposes in Syria for or on behalf of the Government 
        of Syria to any foreign person operating in an area described 
        in subparagraph (C); or
            (E) knowingly, directly or indirectly, provides significant 
        construction or engineering services to the Government of 
        Syria.
        (3) Sense of congress.--It is the sense of Congress that, in 
    implementing this section, the President should consider financial 
    support under paragraph (2)(A) to include the provision of loans, 
    credits, or export credits.
    (b) Sanctions Described.--
        (1) In general.--The sanctions to be imposed with respect to a 
    foreign person described in subsection (a) are the following:
            (A) Blocking of property.--The President shall exercise all 
        of the powers granted to the President under the International 
        Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) to the 
        extent necessary to block and prohibit all transactions in 
        property and interests in property of the foreign person if 
        such property and interests in property are in the United 
        States, come within the United States, or are or come within 
        the possession or control of a United States person.
            (B) Ineligibility for visas, admission, or parole.--
                (i) Visas, admission, or parole.--An alien described in 
            subsection (a) is--

                    (I) inadmissible to the United States;
                    (II) ineligible to receive a visa or other 
                documentation to enter the United States; and
                    (III) otherwise ineligible to be admitted or 
                paroled into the United States or to receive any other 
                benefit under the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
                U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).

                (ii) Current visas revoked.--

                    (I) In general.--An alien described in subsection 
                (a) is subject to revocation of any visa or other entry 
                documentation regardless of when the visa or other 
                entry documentation is or was issued.
                    (II) Immediate effect.--A revocation under 
                subclause (I) shall--

                        (aa) take effect immediately; and
                        (bb) automatically cancel any other valid visa 
                    or entry documentation that is in the alien's 
                    possession.
        (2) Penalties.--The penalties provided for in subsections (b) 
    and (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency Economic 
    Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) shall apply to a person that violates, 
    attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of 
    regulations promulgated under section 7433(b) to carry out 
    paragraph (1)(A) to the same extent that such penalties apply to a 
    person that commits an unlawful act described in section 206(a) of 
    that Act.
        (3) Exceptions.--Sanctions under paragraph (1)(B) shall not 
    apply with respect to an alien if admitting or paroling the alien 
    into the United States is necessary--
            (A) to permit the United States to comply with the 
        Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations, 
        signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into force 
        November 21, 1947, between the United Nations and the United 
        States, or other applicable international obligations; or
            (B) to carry out or assist law enforcement activity in the 
        United States.
SEC. 7413. STRATEGY RELATING TO AREAS OF SYRIA IN WHICH CIVILIANS ARE 
SUBJECT TO FORCED DISPLACEMENT.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the President shall--
        (1) identify the areas described in subsection (b); and
        (2) submit to the appropriate congressional committees the 
    strategy described in subsection (c).
    (b) Areas Described.--The areas described in this subsection are 
areas in Syria that the President determines--
        (1) are under the control of--
            (A) the Government of Syria;
            (B) the Government of the Russian Federation;
            (C) the Government of Iran; or
            (D) a foreign person described in section 
        7412(a)(2)(A)(ii); and
        (2) are areas in which civilians have been subject to forced 
    displacement by--
            (A) a government specified in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) 
        of paragraph (1); or
            (B) a foreign person described in section 
        7412(a)(2)(A)(ii).
    (c) Strategy Described.--The strategy described in this subsection 
is a strategy to deter foreign persons from entering into contracts 
related to reconstruction in the areas described in subsection (b) for 
or on behalf of--
        (1) a government specified in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of 
    subsection (b)(1); or
        (2) a foreign person described in section 7412(a)(2)(A)(ii).
    (d) Form.--The strategy required by subsection (a)(2) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
    (e) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
    Representatives; and
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.

             Subtitle B--Assistance for the People of Syria

SEC. 7421. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
    It is the sense of Congress that it is in the interests of the 
United States to continue to provide assistance to the people of Syria 
in order to promote peace, stability, and development, including 
through multilateral organizations.
SEC. 7422. BRIEFING ON MONITORING AND EVALUATING OF ONGOING ASSISTANCE 
PROGRAMS IN SYRIA AND TO THE SYRIAN PEOPLE.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State and the Administrator of 
the United States Agency for International Development shall brief the 
Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate on the monitoring and 
evaluation of ongoing assistance programs in Syria and for the Syrian 
people, including assistance provided through multilateral 
organizations.
    (b) Matters To Be Included.--The briefing required by subsection 
(a) shall include a description of--
        (1) the specific project monitoring and evaluation efforts, 
    including measurable goals and performance metrics for assistance 
    in Syria;
        (2) the memoranda of understanding entered into by the 
    Department of State, the United States Agency for International 
    Development, and their respective Inspectors General, and the 
    multilateral organizations through which United States assistance 
    will be delivered that formalize requirements for the sharing of 
    information between such entities for the conduct of audits, 
    investigations, and evaluations; and
        (3) the major challenges to monitoring and evaluating programs 
    described in subsection (a).
SEC. 7423. ASSESSMENT OF POTENTIAL METHODS TO ENHANCE THE PROTECTION OF 
CIVILIANS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the President shall brief the appropriate 
congressional committees on the potential effectiveness, risks, and 
operational requirements of military and non-military means to enhance 
the protection of civilians inside Syria, especially civilians who are 
in besieged areas, trapped at borders, or internally displaced.
    (b) Consultation.--The briefing required by subsection (a) shall be 
informed by consultations with the Department of State, the United 
States Agency for International Development, the Department of Defense, 
and international and local humanitarian aid organizations operating in 
Syria.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Armed 
    Services of the House of Representatives; and
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
    Armed Services of the Senate.
SEC. 7424. ASSISTANCE TO SUPPORT ENTITIES TAKING ACTIONS RELATING TO 
GATHERING EVIDENCE FOR INVESTIGATIONS INTO WAR CRIMES OR CRIMES AGAINST 
HUMANITY IN SYRIA SINCE MARCH 2011.
    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b), the 
Secretary of State, after consultation with the Attorney General and 
the heads of other appropriate Federal agencies, is authorized, 
consistent with the national interest, to provide assistance to support 
entities that are conducting criminal investigations, supporting 
prosecutions, or collecting evidence and preserving the chain of 
custody for such evidence for eventual prosecution, against those who 
have committed war crimes or crimes against humanity in Syria, 
including the aiding and abetting of such crimes by foreign governments 
and organizations supporting the Government of Syria, since March 2011.
    (b) Limitation.--No assistance may be provided under subsection (a) 
while President Bashar al-Assad remains in power--
        (1) to build the investigative or judicial capacities of the 
    Government of Syria; or
        (2) to support prosecutions in the domestic courts in Syria.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall brief the Committee 
on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Foreign Relations of the Senate on assistance provided under subsection 
(a).
SEC. 7425. CODIFICATION OF CERTAIN SERVICES IN SUPPORT OF 
NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS' ACTIVITIES AUTHORIZED.
    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b), section 
542.516 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations (relating to certain 
services in support of nongovernmental organizations' activities 
authorized), as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment 
of this Act, shall--
        (1) remain in effect on and after such date of enactment; and
        (2) in the case of a nongovernmental organization that is 
    authorized to export or reexport services to Syria under such 
    section on the day before such date of enactment, apply to such 
    organization on and after such date of enactment to the same extent 
    and in the same manner as such section applied to such organization 
    on the day before such date of enactment.
    (b) Exception.--
        (1) In general.--Section 542.516 of title 31, Code of Federal 
    Regulations, as codified under subsection (a), shall not apply with 
    respect to a foreign person that has been designated as a foreign 
    terrorist organization under section 219 of the Immigration and 
    Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189), or otherwise designated as a 
    terrorist organization, by the Secretary of State, in consultation 
    with or upon the request of the Attorney General or the Secretary 
    of Homeland Security.
        (2) Effective date.--Paragraph (1) shall apply with respect to 
    a foreign person on and after the date on which the designation of 
    that person as a terrorist organization is published in the Federal 
    Register.
SEC. 7426. BRIEFING ON STRATEGY TO FACILITATE HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the President shall brief the appropriate 
congressional committees on the strategy of the President to help 
facilitate the ability of humanitarian organizations to access 
financial services to help facilitate the safe and timely delivery of 
assistance to communities in need in Syria.
    (b) Consideration of Data From Other Countries and Nongovernmental 
Organizations.--In preparing the strategy required by subsection (a), 
the President shall consider credible data already obtained by other 
countries and nongovernmental organizations, including organizations 
operating in Syria.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on 
    Financial Services of the House of Representatives; and
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
    Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.

                     Subtitle C--General Provisions

SEC. 7431. SUSPENSION OF SANCTIONS.
    (a) In General.--The President may suspend in whole or in part the 
imposition of sanctions otherwise required under this Act or the 
imposition of sanctions required by any amendment made by this title 
for renewable periods not to exceed 180 days if the President 
determines that the following criteria have been met in Syria:
        (1) The air space over Syria is no longer being utilized by the 
    Government of Syria or the Government of the Russian Federation to 
    target civilian populations through the use of incendiary devices, 
    including barrel bombs, chemical weapons, and conventional arms 
    (including air-delivered missiles and explosives).
        (2) Areas besieged by the Government of Syria, the Government 
    of the Russian Federation, the Government of Iran, or a foreign 
    person described in section 7412(a)(2)(A)(ii) are no longer cut off 
    from international aid and have regular access to humanitarian 
    assistance, freedom of travel, and medical care.
        (3) The Government of Syria is releasing all political 
    prisoners forcibly held within the prison system of the regime of 
    Bashar al-Assad and the Government of Syria is allowing full access 
    to prison system facilities for investigations by appropriate 
    international human rights organizations.
        (4) The forces of the Government of Syria, the Government of 
    the Russian Federation, the Government of Iran, and any foreign 
    person described in section 7412(a)(2)(A)(ii) are no longer engaged 
    in deliberate targeting of medical facilities, schools, residential 
    areas, and community gathering places, including markets, in 
    violation of international norms.
        (5) The Government of Syria is--
            (A) taking steps to verifiably fulfill its commitments 
        under the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, 
        Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on 
        their Destruction, done at Geneva September 3, 1992, and 
        entered into force April 29, 1997 (commonly known as the 
        ``Chemical Weapons Convention''), and the Treaty on the Non-
        Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, done at Washington, London, 
        and Moscow July 1, 1968, and entered into force March 5, 1970 
        (21 UST 483); and
            (B) making tangible progress toward becoming a signatory to 
        the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, 
        Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and 
        Toxin Weapons and on their Destruction, done at Washington, 
        London, and Moscow April 10, 1972, and entered into force March 
        26, 1975 (26 UST 583).
        (6) The Government of Syria is permitting the safe, voluntary, 
    and dignified return of Syrians displaced by the conflict.
        (7) The Government of Syria is taking verifiable steps to 
    establish meaningful accountability for perpetrators of war crimes 
    in Syria and justice for victims of war crimes committed by the 
    Assad regime, including through participation in a credible and 
    independent truth and reconciliation process.
    (b) Briefing Required.--Not later than 30 days after the President 
makes a determination described in subsection (a), the President shall 
provide a briefing to the appropriate congressional committees on the 
determination and the suspension of sanctions pursuant to the 
determination.
    (c) Reimposition of Sanctions.--Any sanctions suspended under 
subsection (a) shall be reimposed if the President determines that the 
criteria described in that subsection are no longer being met.
    (d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to limit the authority of the President to terminate the 
application of sanctions under section 7412 with respect to a person 
that no longer engages in activities described in subsection (a)(2) of 
that section.
    (e) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
    Financial Services, the Committee on Ways and Means, and the 
    Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives; and
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
    Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, and the Committee on the 
    Judiciary of the Senate.
SEC. 7432. WAIVERS AND EXEMPTIONS.
    (a) Exemptions.--The following activities and transactions shall be 
exempt from sanctions authorized under this title or any amendment made 
by this title:
        (1) Any activity subject to the reporting requirements under 
    title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091 et 
    seq.), or to any authorized intelligence activities of the United 
    States.
        (2) Any transaction necessary to comply with United States 
    obligations under--
            (A) the Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United 
        Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into 
        force November 21, 1947, between the United Nations and the 
        United States;
            (B) the Convention on Consular Relations, done at Vienna 
        April 24, 1963, and entered into force March 19, 1967; or
            (C) any other international agreement to which the United 
        States is a party.
    (b) Waiver.--
        (1) In general.--The President may, for renewable periods not 
    to exceed 180 days, waive the application of any provision of this 
    title (other than section 7434) with respect to a foreign person if 
    the President certifies to the appropriate congressional committees 
    that such a waiver is in the national security interests of the 
    United States.
        (2) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the issuance of a 
    waiver under paragraph (1), and every 180 days thereafter while the 
    waiver remains in effect, the President shall brief the appropriate 
    congressional committees on the reasons for the waiver.
    (c) Humanitarian Waiver.--
        (1) In general.--The President may waive, for renewable periods 
    not to exceed 2 years, the application of any provision of this 
    title (other than section 7434) with respect to a nongovernmental 
    organization providing humanitarian assistance not covered by the 
    authorization described in section 7425 if the President certifies 
    to the appropriate congressional committees that such a waiver is 
    important to address a humanitarian need and is consistent with the 
    national security interests of the United States.
        (2) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the issuance of a 
    waiver under paragraph (1), and every 180 days thereafter while the 
    waiver remains in effect, the President shall brief the appropriate 
    congressional committees on the reasons for the waiver.
    (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
    Financial Services, the Committee on Ways and Means, and the 
    Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives; and
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
    Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, and the Committee on the 
    Judiciary of the Senate.
SEC. 7433. IMPLEMENTATION AND REGULATORY AUTHORITIES.
    (a) Implementation Authority.--The President may exercise all 
authorities provided to the President under sections 203 and 205 of the 
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) 
for purposes of carrying out this title and the amendments made by this 
title.
    (b) Regulatory Authority.--The President shall, not later than 180 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, promulgate 
regulations as necessary for the implementation of this title and the 
amendments made by this title.
SEC. 7434. EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTATION OF GOODS.
    (a) In General.--The authorities and requirements to impose 
sanctions authorized under this title or the amendments made by this 
title shall not include the authority or a requirement to impose 
sanctions on the importation of goods.
    (b) Good Defined.--In this section, the term ``good'' means any 
article, natural or manmade substance, material, supply or manufactured 
product, including inspection and test equipment, and excluding 
technical data.
SEC. 7435. COST LIMITATION.
    No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated to carry out 
the requirements of this title and the amendments made by this title. 
Such requirements shall be carried out using amounts otherwise 
authorized to be appropriated.
SEC. 7436. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
    Except for section 7434 with respect to the importation of goods, 
nothing in this title shall be construed to limit the authority of the 
President pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act 
(50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) or any other provision of law.
SEC. 7437. PROHIBITION ON CONSTRUCTION OF PROVISIONS OF THIS TITLE AS 
AN AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF MILITARY FORCE.
    Nothing in this title may be construed as an authorization for use 
of military force.
SEC. 7438. SUNSET.
    This title shall cease to be effective on the date that is 5 years 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.

            TITLE LXXV--PROTECTING EUROPE'S ENERGY SECURITY

Sec. 7501. Short title.
Sec. 7502. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 7503. Imposition of sanctions with respect to provision of certain 
          vessels for the construction of certain Russian energy export 
          pipelines.
SEC. 7501. SHORT TITLE.
    This title may be cited as the ``Protecting Europe's Energy 
Security Act of 2019''.
SEC. 7502. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the United States and Europe share a common history, a 
    common identity, and common values built upon the principles of 
    democracy, rule of law, and individual freedoms;
        (2) the United States has encouraged and admired the European 
    project, which has resulted in a common market and common policies, 
    has achieved unprecedented prosperity and stability on the 
    continent, and serves as a model for other countries to reform 
    their institutions and prioritize anticorruption measures;
        (3) the relationships between the United States and Europe and 
    the United States and Germany are critical to the national security 
    interests of the United States as well as to global prosperity and 
    peace, and Germany in particular is a crucial partner for the 
    United States in multilateral efforts aimed at promoting global 
    prosperity and peace;
        (4) the United States should stand against any effort designed 
    to weaken those relationships; and
        (5) Germany has demonstrated leadership within the European 
    Union and in international fora to ensure that sanctions imposed 
    with respect to the Russian Federation for its malign activities 
    are maintained.
SEC. 7503. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO PROVISION OF CERTAIN 
VESSELS FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF CERTAIN RUSSIAN ENERGY EXPORT 
PIPELINES.
    (a) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, and every 90 days thereafter, the Secretary 
    of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, shall 
    submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that 
    identifies, for the period specified in paragraph (2)--
            (A) vessels that engaged in pipe-laying at depths of 100 
        feet or more below sea level for the construction of the Nord 
        Stream 2 pipeline project, the TurkStream pipeline project, or 
        any project that is a successor to either such project; and
            (B) foreign persons that the Secretary of State, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, determines 
        have knowingly--
                (i) sold, leased, or provided those vessels for the 
            construction of such a project; or
                (ii) facilitated deceptive or structured transactions 
            to provide those vessels for the construction of such a 
            project.
        (2) Period specified.--The period specified in this paragraph 
    is--
            (A) in the case of the first report required to be 
        submitted by paragraph (1), the period beginning on the date of 
        the enactment of this Act and ending on the date on which the 
        report is submitted; and
            (B) in the case of any subsequent such report, the 90-day 
        period preceding submission of the report.
    (b) Ineligibility for Visas, Admission, or Parole of Identified 
Persons and Corporate Officers.--
        (1) In general.--
            (A) Visas, admission, or parole.--An alien described in 
        paragraph (2) is--
                (i) inadmissible to the United States;
                (ii) ineligible to receive a visa or other 
            documentation to enter the United States; and
                (iii) otherwise ineligible to be admitted or paroled 
            into the United States or to receive any other benefit 
            under the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et 
            seq.).
            (B) Current visas revoked.--
                (i) In general.--The visa or other entry documentation 
            of an alien described in paragraph (2) shall be revoked, 
            regardless of when such visa or other entry documentation 
            is or was issued.
                (ii) Immediate effect.--A revocation under clause (i) 
            shall--

                    (I) take effect immediately; and
                    (II) automatically cancel any other valid visa or 
                entry documentation that is in the alien's possession.

        (2) Aliens described.--An alien is described in this paragraph 
    if the alien is--
            (A) a foreign person identified under subsection (a)(1)(B);
            (B) a corporate officer of a person described in 
        subparagraph (A); or
            (C) a principal shareholder with a controlling interest in 
        a person described in subparagraph (A).
    (c) Blocking of Property of Identified Persons.--The President 
shall exercise all powers granted to the President by the International 
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) to the extent 
necessary to block and prohibit all transactions in all property and 
interests in property of any person identified under subsection 
(a)(1)(B) if such property and interests in property are in the United 
States, come within the United States, or are or come within the 
possession or control of a United States person.
    (d) Wind-down Period.--The President may not impose sanctions under 
this section with respect to a person identified in the first report 
submitted under subsection (a) if the President certifies in that 
report that the person has, not later than 30 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, engaged in good faith efforts to wind down 
operations that would otherwise subject the person to the imposition of 
sanctions under this section.
    (e) Exceptions.--
        (1) Exception for intelligence, law enforcement, and national 
    security activities.--Sanctions under this section shall not apply 
    to any authorized intelligence, law enforcement, or national 
    security activities of the United States.
        (2) Exception to comply with united nations headquarters 
    agreement.--Sanctions under this section shall not apply with 
    respect to the admission of an alien to the United States if the 
    admission of the alien is necessary to permit the United States to 
    comply with the Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United 
    Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into 
    force November 21, 1947, between the United Nations and the United 
    States, the Convention on Consular Relations, done at Vienna April 
    24, 1963, and entered into force March 19, 1967, or other 
    applicable international obligations.
        (3) Exception for safety of vessels and crew.--Sanctions under 
    this section shall not apply with respect to a person providing 
    provisions to a vessel identified under subsection (a)(1)(A) if 
    such provisions are intended for the safety and care of the crew 
    aboard the vessel, the protection of human life aboard the vessel, 
    or the maintenance of the vessel to avoid any environmental or 
    other significant damage.
        (4) Exception for repair or maintenance of pipelines.--
    Sanctions under this section shall not apply with respect to a 
    person for engaging in activities necessary for or related to the 
    repair or maintenance of, or environmental remediation with respect 
    to, a pipeline project described in subsection (a)(1)(A).
        (5) Exception relating to importation of goods.--
            (A) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        this section, the authorities and requirements to impose 
        sanctions authorized under this section shall not include the 
        authority or a requirement to impose sanctions on the 
        importation of goods.
            (B) Good defined.--In this paragraph, the term ``good'' 
        means any article, natural or man-made substance, material, 
        supply or manufactured product, including inspection and test 
        equipment, and excluding technical data.
    (f) Waivers.--
        (1) National interest waiver for visa ban.--The President may 
    waive the application of sanctions under subsection (b) with 
    respect to an alien if the President--
            (A) determines that the waiver is in the national interests 
        of the United States; and
            (B) submits to the appropriate congressional committees a 
        report on the waiver and the reasons for the waiver.
        (2) National security waiver for economic and other 
    sanctions.--The President may waive the application of sanctions 
    under subsection (c) with respect to a person if the President--
            (A) determines that the waiver is in the national security 
        interests of the United States; and
            (B) submits to the appropriate congressional committees a 
        report on the waiver and the reasons for the waiver.
    (g) Implementation; Penalties.--
        (1) Implementation.--The President may exercise all authorities 
    provided to the President under sections 203 and 205 of the 
    International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 
    1704) to carry out this section.
        (2) Penalties.--A person that violates, attempts to violate, 
    conspires to violate, or causes a violation of this section or any 
    regulation, license, or order issued to carry out this section 
    shall be subject to the penalties set forth in subsections (b) and 
    (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers 
    Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) to the same extent as a person that commits an 
    unlawful act described in subsection (a) of that section.
    (h) Termination and Sunset.--The authority to impose sanctions 
under this section with respect to a person involved in the 
construction of a pipeline project described in subsection (a)(1)(A), 
and any sanctions imposed under this section with respect to that 
project, shall terminate on the date that is the earlier of--
        (1) the date on which the President certifies to the 
    appropriate congressional committees that appropriate safeguards 
    have been put in place--
            (A) to minimize the ability of the Government of the 
        Russian Federation to use that project as a tool of coercion 
        and political leverage, including by achieving the unbundling 
        of energy production and transmission so that entities owned or 
        controlled by that Government do not control the transmission 
        network for the pipeline; and
            (B) to ensure, barring unforeseen circumstances, that the 
        project would not result in a decrease of more than 25 percent 
        in the volume of Russian energy exports transiting through 
        existing pipelines in other countries, particularly Ukraine, 
        relative to the average monthly volume of Russian energy 
        exports transiting through such pipelines in 2018; or
        (2) the date that is 5 years after the date of the enactment of 
    this Act.
    (i) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Admission; admitted; alien.--The terms ``admission'', 
    ``admitted'', and ``alien'' have the meanings given those terms in 
    section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101).
        (2) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
        Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on 
        Financial Services of the House of Representatives.
        (3) Foreign person.--The term ``foreign person'' means an 
    individual or entity that is not a United States person.
        (4) Knowingly.--The term ``knowingly'', with respect to 
    conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has 
    actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the 
    circumstance, or the result.
        (5) United states person.--The term ``United States person'' 
    means--
            (A) a United States citizen or an alien lawfully admitted 
        for permanent residence to the United States;
            (B) an entity organized under the laws of the United States 
        or any jurisdiction within the United States, including a 
        foreign branch of such an entity; or
            (C) any person within the United States.

                       TITLE LXXVI--OTHER MATTERS

               Subtitle A--Federal Employee Paid Leave Act

Sec. 7601. Short title.
Sec. 7602. Paid parental leave under title 5.
Sec. 7603. Paid parental leave for congressional employees.
Sec. 7604. Conforming amendment to Family and Medical Leave Act for GAO 
          and Library of Congress employees.
Sec. 7605. Clarification for members of the National Guard and Reserves.
Sec. 7606. Conforming amendment for certain TSA employees.

                        Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 7611. Liberian refugee immigration fairness.
Sec. 7612. Pensacola Dam and Reservoir, Grand River, Oklahoma.
Sec. 7613. Limitation on certain rolling stock procurements; 
          cybersecurity certification for rail rolling stock and 
          operations.

              Subtitle A--Federal Employee Paid Leave Act

SEC. 7601. SHORT TITLE.
    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Federal Employee Paid Leave 
Act''.
SEC. 7602. PAID PARENTAL LEAVE UNDER TITLE 5.
    (a) In General.--Subsection (d) of section 6382 of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking ``An employee'' and inserting ``(1) An 
    employee'';
        (2) by striking ``subparagraph (A), (B), (C),'' and inserting 
    ``subparagraph (C),''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(2)(A) An employee may elect to substitute for any leave 
    without pay under subparagraph (A) or (B) of subsection (a)(1) any 
    paid leave which is available to such employee for that purpose.
        ``(B) The paid leave that is available to an employee for 
    purposes of subparagraph (A) is--
            ``(i) 12 administrative workweeks of paid parental leave 
        under this subparagraph in connection with the birth or 
        placement involved; and
            ``(ii) during the 12-month period referred to in subsection 
        (a)(1), and in addition to the 12 administrative workweeks 
        under clause (i), any annual or sick leave accrued or 
        accumulated by such employee under subchapter I.
        ``(C) Nothing in this subsection shall be considered to require 
    that an employee first use all or any portion of the leave 
    described in subparagraph (B)(ii) before being allowed to use the 
    paid parental leave described in subparagraph (B)(i).
        ``(D) Paid parental leave under subparagraph (B)(i)--
            ``(i) shall be payable from any appropriation or fund 
        available for salaries or expenses for positions within the 
        employing agency;
            ``(ii) shall not be considered to be annual or vacation 
        leave for purposes of section 5551 or 5552 or for any other 
        purpose; and
            ``(iii) if not used by the employee before the end of the 
        12-month period (as referred to in subsection (a)(1)) to which 
        it relates, shall not accumulate for any subsequent use.
        ``(E) Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to modify 
    the requirement to complete at least 12 months of service as an 
    employee (within the meaning of section 6381(1)(A)) before the date 
    of the applicable birth or placement involved to be eligible for 
    paid parental leave under subparagraph (B)(i) of this paragraph.
        ``(F)(i) An employee may not take leave under this paragraph 
    unless the employee agrees (in writing), before the commencement of 
    such leave, to work for the applicable employing agency for not 
    less than a period of 12 weeks beginning on the date such leave 
    concludes.
        ``(ii) The head of the agency shall waive the requirement in 
    clause (i) in any instance where the employee is unable to return 
    to work because of the continuation, recurrence, or onset of a 
    serious health condition (including mental health), related to the 
    applicable birth or placement of a child, of the employee or the 
    child.
        ``(iii) The head of the employing agency may require that an 
    employee who claims to be unable to return to work because of a 
    health condition described under clause (ii) provide certification 
    supporting such claim by the health care provider of the employee 
    or the child (as the case may be). The employee shall provide such 
    certification to the head in a timely manner.
        ``(G)(i) If an employee fails to return from paid leave 
    provided under this paragraph after the date such leave concludes, 
    the employing agency may recover, from such employee, an amount 
    equal to the total amount of Government contributions paid by the 
    agency under section 8906 on behalf of the employee for maintaining 
    such employee's health coverage under chapter 89 during the period 
    of such leave.
        ``(ii) Clause (i) shall not apply to any employee who fails to 
    return from such leave due to--
            ``(I) the continuation, recurrence, or onset of a serious 
        health condition as described under, and consistent with the 
        requirements of, subparagraph (F); or
            ``(II) any other circumstance beyond the control of the 
        employee.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section 6382(a) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) 
    by inserting ``and subsection (d)(2) of this section'' after 
    ``section 6383''; and
        (2) in paragraph (4), by striking ``During'' and inserting 
    ``Subject to subsection (d)(2), during''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall not 
be effective with respect to any birth or placement occurring before 
October 1, 2020.
SEC. 7603. PAID PARENTAL LEAVE FOR CONGRESSIONAL EMPLOYEES.
    (a) Amendments to Congressional Accountability Act.--Section 202 of 
the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1312) is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(1), by adding at the end the following: 
    ``In applying section 102 of such Act with respect to leave for an 
    event described in subsection (a)(1)(A) or (B) of such section to 
    covered employees, subsection (d) of this section shall apply. 
    Paragraphs (1) and (4) of section 102(a) of such Act shall be 
    subject to subsection (d) of this section.'';
        (2) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections (e) 
    and (f), respectively; and
        (3) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
    ``(d) Special Rule for Paid Parental Leave.--
        ``(1) Substitution of paid leave.--A covered employee may elect 
    to substitute for any leave without pay under subparagraph (A) or 
    (B) of section 102(a)(1) of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 
    1993 (29 U.S.C. 2612(a)(1)) any paid leave which is available to 
    such employee for that purpose.
        ``(2) Amount of paid leave.--The paid leave that is available 
    to a covered employee for purposes of paragraph (1) is--
            ``(A) the number of weeks of paid parental leave in 
        connection with the birth or placement involved that 
        corresponds to the number of administrative workweeks of paid 
        parental leave available to employees under section 
        6382(d)(2)(B)(i) of title 5, United States Code; and
            ``(B) during the 12-month period referred to in section 
        102(a)(1) of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (29 
        U.S.C. 2612(a)(1)) and in addition to the administrative 
        workweeks described in subparagraph (A), any additional paid 
        vacation, personal, family, medical, or sick leave provided by 
        the employing office to such employee.
        ``(3) Limitation.--Nothing in this section or section 
    102(d)(2)(A) of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (29 U.S.C. 
    2612(d)(2)(A)) shall be considered to require or permit an 
    employing office to require that an employee first use all or any 
    portion of the leave described in paragraph (2)(B) before being 
    allowed to use the paid parental leave described in paragraph 
    (2)(A).
        ``(4) Additional rules.--Paid parental leave under paragraph 
    (2)(A)--
            ``(A) shall be payable from any appropriation or fund 
        available for salaries or expenses for positions within the 
        employing office;
            ``(B) if not used by the covered employee before the end of 
        the 12-month period (as referred to in section 102(a)(1) of the 
        Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (29 U.S.C. 2612(a)(1))) to 
        which it relates, shall not accumulate for any subsequent use; 
        and
            ``(C) shall apply without regard to the limitations in 
        subparagraph (E), (F), or (G) of section 6382(d)(2) of title 5, 
        United States Code, or section 104(c)(2) of the Family and 
        Medical Leave Act of 1993 (29 U.S.C. 2614(c)(2)).''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 202(a)(2) of the Congressional 
Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1312(a)(2)) is amended by adding 
at the end the following: ``The requirements of subparagraph (B) shall 
not apply with respect to leave under subparagraph (A) or (B) of 
section 102(a)(1) of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (29 
U.S.C. 2612(a)(1)).''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall not 
be effective with respect to any birth or placement occurring before 
October 1, 2020.
SEC. 7604. CONFORMING AMENDMENT TO FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT FOR GAO 
AND LIBRARY OF CONGRESS EMPLOYEES.
    (a) Amendment to Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993.--Section 102 
of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (29 U.S.C. 2612) is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and subsection 
        (d)(3)'' after ``section 103''; and
            (B) in paragraph (4), by striking ``During'' and inserting 
        ``Subject to subsection (d)(3), during''; and
        (2) in subsection (d), by adding at the end the following:
        ``(3) Special rule for gao employees.--
            ``(A) Substitution of paid leave.--An employee of the 
        Government Accountability Office may elect to substitute for 
        any leave without pay under subparagraph (A) or (B) of 
        subsection (a)(1) any paid leave which is available to such 
        employee for that purpose.
            ``(B) Amount of paid leave.--The paid leave that is 
        available to an employee of the Government Accountability 
        Office for purposes of subparagraph (A) is--
                ``(i) the number of weeks of paid parental leave in 
            connection with the birth or placement involved that 
            corresponds to the number of administrative workweeks of 
            paid parental leave available to employees under section 
            6382(d)(2)(B)(i) of title 5, United States Code; and
                ``(ii) during the 12-month period referred to in 
            section 102(a)(1) and in addition to the administrative 
            workweeks described in clause (i), any additional paid 
            vacation, personal, family, medical, or sick leave provided 
            by such employer.
            ``(C) Limitation.--Nothing in this section shall be 
        considered to require or permit an employer to require that an 
        employee first use all or any portion of the leave described in 
        subparagraph (B)(ii) before being allowed to use the paid 
        parental leave described in clause (i) of subparagraph (B).
            ``(D) Additional rules.--Paid parental leave under 
        subparagraph (B)(i)--
                ``(i) shall be payable from any appropriation or fund 
            available for salaries or expenses for positions with the 
            Government Accountability Office;
                ``(ii) if not used by the employee of such employer 
            before the end of the 12-month period (as referred to in 
            subsection (a)(1)) to which it relates, shall not 
            accumulate for any subsequent use; and
                ``(iii) shall apply without regard to the limitations 
            in subparagraph (E), (F), or (G) of section 6382(d)(2) of 
            title 5, United States Code or section 104(c)(2) of this 
            Act.
        ``(4) Special rule for library of congress employees.--
    Consistent with section 101(a)(3)(J) of the Congressional 
    Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1301(a)(3)(J)), the rights and 
    protections established by sections 101 through 105, including 
    section 102(d)(3), shall apply to employees of the Library of 
    Congress under section 202 of that Act (2 U.S.C. 1312).''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 101(2) of the Family and Medical 
Leave Act of 1993 (29 U.S.C. 2611(2)) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
            ``(E) GAO employees.--In the case of an employee of the 
        Government Accountability Office, the requirements of 
        subparagraph (A) shall not apply with respect to leave under 
        section 102(a)(1)(A) or (B).''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall not 
be effective with respect to any birth or placement occurring before 
October 1, 2020.
SEC. 7605. CLARIFICATION FOR MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL GUARD AND 
RESERVES.
    (a) Executive Branch Employees.--For purposes of determining the 
eligibility of an employee who is a member of the National Guard or 
Reserves to take leave under section 6382(a) of title 5, United States 
Code, or to substitute such leave pursuant to subsection (d)(2)(A) of 
section 6382 of such title (as added by section 1102), any service by 
such employee on active duty (as defined in section 6381(7) of such 
title) shall be counted as service as an employee for purposes of 
section 6381(1)(B) of such title.
    (b) Congressional Employees.--For purposes of determining the 
eligibility of a covered employee (as such term is defined in section 
101(3) of the Congressional Accountability Act) who is a member of the 
National Guard or Reserves to take leave under section 102(a) of the 
Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (pursuant to section 202(a)(1) of 
the Congressional Accountability Act), any service by such employee on 
active duty (as defined in section 101(14) of the Family and Medical 
Leave Act of 1993) shall be counted as time during which such employee 
has been employed in an employing office for purposes of section 
202(a)(2)(B) of the Congressional Accountability Act.
    (c) Gao and Library of Congress Employees.--For purposes of 
determining the eligibility of an employee of the Government 
Accountability Office or Library of Congress who is a member of the 
National Guard or Reserves to take leave under section 102(a) of the 
Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, any service by such employee on 
active duty (as defined in section 101(14) of such Act) shall be 
counted as time during which such employee has been employed for 
purposes of section 101(2)(A) of such Act.
SEC. 7606. CONFORMING AMENDMENT FOR CERTAIN TSA EMPLOYEES.
    Section 111(d)(2) of the Aviation and Transportation Security Act 
(49 U.S.C. 44935 note) is amended to read as follows:
        ``(2) Exceptions.--
            ``(A) Reemployment.--In carrying out the functions 
        authorized under paragraph (1), the Under Secretary shall be 
        subject to the provisions set forth in chapter 43 of title 38, 
        United States Code.
            ``(B) Leave.--The provisions of subchapter V of chapter 63 
        of title 5, United States Code, shall apply to any individual 
        appointed under paragraph (1) as if such individual were an 
        employee (within the meaning of subparagraph (A) of section 
        6381(1) of such title).''.

                       Subtitle B--Other Matters

SEC. 7611. LIBERIAN REFUGEE IMMIGRATION FAIRNESS.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) In general.--Except as otherwise specifically provided, any 
    term used in this Act that is used in the immigration laws shall 
    have the meaning given the term in the immigration laws.
        (2) Immigration laws.--The term ``immigration laws'' has the 
    meaning given the term in section 101(a)(17) of the Immigration and 
    Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(17)).
        (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    Homeland Security.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), the 
    Secretary shall adjust the status of an alien described in 
    subsection (c) to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent 
    residence if the alien--
            (A) applies for adjustment not later than 1 year after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act;
            (B) is otherwise eligible to receive an immigrant visa; and
            (C) subject to paragraph (2), is admissible to the United 
        States for permanent residence.
        (2) Applicability of grounds of inadmissibility.--In 
    determining the admissibility of an alien under paragraph (1)(C), 
    the grounds of inadmissibility specified in paragraphs (4), (5), 
    (6)(A), and (7)(A) of section 212(a) of the Immigration and 
    Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)) shall not apply.
        (3) Exceptions.--An alien shall not be eligible for adjustment 
    of status under this subsection if the Secretary determines that 
    the alien--
            (A) has been convicted of any aggravated felony;
            (B) has been convicted of two or more crimes involving 
        moral turpitude (other than a purely political offense); or
            (C) has ordered, incited, assisted, or otherwise 
        participated in the persecution of any person on account of 
        race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social 
        group, or political opinion.
        (4) Relationship of application to certain orders.--
            (A) In general.--An alien present in the United States who 
        has been subject to an order of exclusion, deportation, 
        removal, or voluntary departure under any provision of the 
        Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.) may, 
        notwithstanding such order, submit an application for 
        adjustment of status under this subsection if the alien is 
        otherwise eligible for adjustment of status under paragraph 
        (1).
            (B) Separate motion not required.--An alien described in 
        subparagraph (A) shall not be required, as a condition of 
        submitting or granting an application under this subsection, to 
        file a separate motion to reopen, reconsider, or vacate an 
        order described in subparagraph (A).
            (C) Effect of decision by secretary.--
                (i) Grant.--If the Secretary adjusts the status of an 
            alien pursuant to an application under this subsection, the 
            Secretary shall cancel any order described in subparagraph 
            (A) to which the alien has been subject.
                (ii) Denial.--If the Secretary makes a final decision 
            to deny such application, any such order shall be effective 
            and enforceable to the same extent that such order would be 
            effective and enforceable if the application had not been 
            made.
    (c) Aliens Eligible for Adjustment of Status.--
        (1) In general.--The benefits provided under subsection (b) 
    shall apply to any alien who--
            (A)(i) is a national of Liberia; and
            (ii) has been continuously present in the United States 
        during the period beginning on November 20, 2014, and ending on 
        the date on which the alien submits an application under 
        subsection (b); or
            (B) is the spouse, child, or unmarried son or daughter of 
        an alien described in subparagraph (A).
        (2) Determination of continuous physical presence.--For 
    purposes of establishing the period of continuous physical presence 
    referred to in paragraph (1)(A)(ii), an alien shall not be 
    considered to have failed to maintain continuous physical presence 
    based on one or more absences from the United States for one or 
    more periods amounting, in the aggregate, of not more than 180 
    days.
    (d) Stay of Removal.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary shall promulgate regulations 
    establishing procedures by which an alien who is subject to a final 
    order of deportation, removal, or exclusion, may seek a stay of 
    such order based on the filing of an application under subsection 
    (b).
        (2) During certain proceedings.--
            (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B), 
        notwithstanding any provision of the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.), the Secretary may not 
        order an alien to be removed from the United States if the 
        alien--
                (i) is in exclusion, deportation, or removal 
            proceedings under any provision of such Act; and
                (ii) has submitted an application for adjustment of 
            status under subsection (b).
            (B) Exception.--The Secretary may order an alien described 
        in subparagraph (A) to be removed from the United States if the 
        Secretary has made a final determination to deny the 
        application for adjustment of status under subsection (b) of 
        the alien.
        (3) Work authorization.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary may--
                (i) authorize an alien who has applied for adjustment 
            of status under subsection (b) to engage in employment in 
            the United States during the period in which a 
            determination on such application is pending; and
                (ii) provide such alien with an ``employment 
            authorized'' endorsement or other appropriate document 
            signifying authorization of employment.
            (B) Pending applications.--If an application for adjustment 
        of status under subsection (b) is pending for a period 
        exceeding 180 days and has not been denied, the Secretary shall 
        authorize employment for the applicable alien.
    (e) Record of Permanent Residence.--On the approval of an 
application for adjustment of status under subsection (b) of an alien, 
the Secretary shall establish a record of admission for permanent 
residence for the alien as of the date of the arrival of the alien in 
the United States.
    (f) Availability of Administrative Review.--The Secretary shall 
provide applicants for adjustment of status under subsection (b) with 
the same right to, and procedures for, administrative review as are 
provided to--
        (1) applicants for adjustment of status under section 245 of 
    the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1255); and
        (2) aliens subject to removal proceedings under section 240 of 
    such Act (8 U.S.C. 1229a).
    (g) Limitation on Judicial Review.--
        (1) In general.--A determination by the Secretary with respect 
    to the adjustment of status of any alien under this section is 
    final and shall not be subject to review by any court.
        (2) Rule of construction.--Nothing in paragraph (1) shall be 
    construed to preclude the review of a constitutional claim or a 
    question of law under section 704 of title 5, United States Code, 
    with respect to a denial of adjustment of status under this 
    section.
    (h) No Offset in Number of Visas Available.--The Secretary of State 
shall not be required to reduce the number of immigrant visas 
authorized to be issued under any provision of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.) to offset the adjustment of 
status of an alien who has been lawfully admitted for permanent 
residence pursuant to this section.
    (i) Application of Immigration and Nationality Act Provisions.--
        (1) Savings provision.--Nothing in this Act may be construed to 
    repeal, amend, alter, modify, effect, or restrict the powers, 
    duties, function, or authority of the Secretary in the 
    administration and enforcement of the Immigration and Nationality 
    Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.) or any other law relating to 
    immigration, nationality, or naturalization.
        (2) Effect of eligibility for adjustment of status.--The 
    eligibility of an alien to be lawfully admitted for permanent 
    residence under this section shall not preclude the alien from 
    seeking any status under any other provision of law for which the 
    alien may otherwise be eligible.
SEC. 7612. PENSACOLA DAM AND RESERVOIR, GRAND RIVER, OKLAHOMA.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Federal 
    Energy Regulatory Commission.
        (2) Conservation pool.--The term ``conservation pool'' means 
    all land and water of Grand Lake O' the Cherokees, Oklahoma, below 
    the flood pool.
        (3) Flood pool.--The term ``flood pool'' means all land and 
    water of Grand Lake O' the Cherokees, Oklahoma, allocated for flood 
    control or navigation by the Secretary pursuant to section 7 of the 
    Flood Control Act of 1944 (33 U.S.C. 709).
        (4) Project.--The term ``project'' means the Pensacola 
    Hydroelectric Project (FERC No. 1494).
        (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Army.
    (b) Conservation Pool Management.--
        (1) Federal land.--Notwithstanding section 3(2) of the Federal 
    Power Act (16 U.S.C. 796(2)), any Federal land within the project 
    boundary, including any right, title, or interest in or to land 
    held by the United States for any purpose, shall not--
            (A) be subject to the first proviso in section 4(e) of the 
        Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 797(e)); or
            (B) be considered to be--
                (i) land or other property of the United States for 
            purposes of recompensing the United States for the use, 
            occupancy, or enjoyment of the land under section 10(e)(1) 
            of that Act (16 U.S.C. 803(e)(1)); or
                (ii) land of the United States for purposes of section 
            24 of that Act (16 U.S.C. 818).
        (2) License conditions.--
            (A) In general.--Except as may be required by the Secretary 
        to carry out responsibilities under section 7 of the Flood 
        Control Act of 1944 (33 U.S.C. 709), the Commission or any 
        other Federal or State agency shall not include in any license 
        for the project any condition or other requirement relating 
        to--
                (i) surface elevations of the conservation pool; or
                (ii) the flood pool (except to the extent it references 
            flood control requirements prescribed by the Secretary).
            (B) Exception.--Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), the 
        project shall remain subject to the Commission's rules and 
        regulations for project safety and protection of human health.
        (3) Project scope.--
            (A) Licensing jurisdiction.--The licensing jurisdiction of 
        the Commission for the project shall not extend to any land or 
        water outside the project boundary.
            (B) Outside infrastructure.--Any land, water, or physical 
        infrastructure or other improvement outside the project 
        boundary shall not be considered to be part of the project.
            (C) Boundary jurisdiction amendments.--The Commission may, 
        consistent with the requirements of the Federal Power Act, 
        amend the project boundary, only with the expressed written 
        agreement of the project licensee. If the licensee does not 
        agree to a project boundary change proposed by the Commission, 
        the purposes and requirements of part I of the Federal Power 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 791a et seq.) shall be deemed to be satisfied 
        without the Commission's proposed boundary or jurisdiction 
        change.
    (c) Exclusive Jurisdiction of Flood Pool Management.--The Secretary 
shall have exclusive jurisdiction and responsibility for management of 
the flood pool for flood control operations at Grand Lake O' the 
Cherokees.
    (d) Study of Upstream Infrastructure.--Not later than 90 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall initiate a 
study of infrastructure and lands upstream from the project to evaluate 
resiliency to flooding. Not later than one year after initiating the 
study, the Secretary shall issue a report advising local communities 
and State departments of transportation of any identified deficiencies 
and potential mitigation options.
    (e) Savings Provision.--Nothing in this section affects, with 
respect to the project--
        (1) any authority or obligation of the Secretary or the Chief 
    of Engineers pursuant to section 2 of the Act of June 28, 1938 
    (commonly known as the ``Flood Control Act of 1938'') (33 U.S.C. 
    701c-1);
        (2) any authority of the Secretary or the Chief of Engineers 
    pursuant to section 7 of the Act of December 22, 1944 (commonly 
    known as the ``Flood Control Act of 1944'') (33 U.S.C. 709);
        (3) any obligation of the United States to obtain flowage or 
    other property rights pursuant to the Act of July 31, 1946 (60 
    Stat. 743, chapter 710);
        (4) any obligation of the United States to acquire flowage or 
    other property rights for additional reservoir storage pursuant to 
    Executive Order 9839 (12 Fed. Reg. 2447; relating to the Grand 
    River Dam Project);
        (5) any authority of the Secretary to acquire real property 
    interest pursuant to section 560 of the Water Resources Development 
    Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-303; 110 Stat. 3783);
        (6) any obligation of the Secretary to conduct and pay the cost 
    of a feasibility study pursuant to section 449 of the Water 
    Resources Development Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-541; 114 Stat. 
    2641);
        (7) the National Flood Insurance Program established under the 
    National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.), 
    including any policy issued under that Act; or
        (8) any disaster assistance made available under the Robert T. 
    Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
    5121 et seq.) or other Federal disaster assistance program.
SEC. 7613. LIMITATION ON CERTAIN ROLLING STOCK PROCUREMENTS; 
CYBERSECURITY CERTIFICATION FOR RAIL ROLLING STOCK AND OPERATIONS.
    Section 5323 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(u) Limitation on Certain Rolling Stock Procurements.--
        ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (5), 
    financial assistance made available under this chapter shall not be 
    used in awarding a contract or subcontract to an entity on or after 
    the date of enactment of this subsection for the procurement of 
    rolling stock for use in public transportation if the manufacturer 
    of the rolling stock--
            ``(A) is incorporated in or has manufacturing facilities in 
        the United States; and
            ``(B) is owned or controlled by, is a subsidiary of, or is 
        otherwise related legally or financially to a corporation based 
        in a country that--
                ``(i) is identified as a nonmarket economy country (as 
            defined in section 771(18) of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 
            U.S.C. 1677(18))) as of the date of enactment of this 
            subsection;
                ``(ii) was identified by the United States Trade 
            Representative in the most recent report required by 
            section 182 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2242) as a 
            foreign country included on the priority watch list defined 
            in subsection (g)(3) of that section; and
                ``(iii) is subject to monitoring by the Trade 
            Representative under section 306 of the Trade Act of 1974 
            (19 U.S.C. 2416).
        ``(2) Exception.--For purposes of paragraph (1), the term 
    `otherwise related legally or financially' does not include a 
    minority relationship or investment.
        ``(3) International agreements.--This subsection shall be 
    applied in a manner consistent with the obligations of the United 
    States under international agreements.
        ``(4) Certification for rail rolling stock.--
            ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (5), as 
        a condition of financial assistance made available in a fiscal 
        year under section 5337, a recipient that operates rail fixed 
        guideway service shall certify in that fiscal year that the 
        recipient will not award any contract or subcontract for the 
        procurement of rail rolling stock for use in public 
        transportation with a rail rolling stock manufacturer described 
        in paragraph (1).
            ``(B) Separate certification.--The certification required 
        under this paragraph shall be in addition to any certification 
        the Secretary establishes to ensure compliance with the 
        requirements of paragraph (1).
        ``(5) Special rules.--
            ``(A) Parties to executed contracts.--This subsection, 
        including the certification requirement under paragraph (4), 
        shall not apply to the award of any contract or subcontract 
        made by a public transportation agency with a rail rolling 
        stock manufacturer described in paragraph (1) if the 
        manufacturer and the public transportation agency have executed 
        a contract for rail rolling stock before the date of enactment 
        of this subsection.
            ``(B) Rolling stock.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
        (C) and for a contract or subcontract that is not described in 
        subparagraph (A), this subsection, including the certification 
        requirement under paragraph (4), shall not apply to the award 
        of a contract or subcontract made by a public transportation 
        agency with any rolling stock manufacturer for the 2-year 
        period beginning on or after the date of enactment of this 
        subsection.
            ``(C) Exception.--Subparagraph (B) shall not apply to the 
        award of a contract or subcontract made by the Washington 
        Metropolitan Area Transit Authority.
    ``(v) Cybersecurity Certification for Rail Rolling Stock and 
Operations.--
        ``(1) Certification.--As a condition of financial assistance 
    made available under this chapter, a recipient that operates a rail 
    fixed guideway public transportation system shall certify that the 
    recipient has established a process to develop, maintain, and 
    execute a written plan for identifying and reducing cybersecurity 
    risks.
        ``(2) Compliance.--For the process required under paragraph 
    (1), a recipient of assistance under this chapter shall--
            ``(A) utilize the approach described by the voluntary 
        standards and best practices developed under section 2(c)(15) 
        of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 
        U.S.C. 272(c)(15)), as applicable;
            ``(B) identify hardware and software that the recipient 
        determines should undergo third-party testing and analysis to 
        mitigate cybersecurity risks, such as hardware or software for 
        rail rolling stock under proposed procurements; and
            ``(C) utilize the approach described in any voluntary 
        standards and best practices for rail fixed guideway public 
        transportation systems developed under the authority of the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security, as applicable.
        ``(3) Limitations on statutory construction.--Nothing in this 
    subsection shall be construed to interfere with the authority of--
            ``(A) the Secretary of Homeland Security to publish or 
        ensure compliance with requirements or standards concerning 
        cybersecurity for rail fixed guideway public transportation 
        systems; or
            ``(B) the Secretary of Transportation under section 5329 to 
        address cybersecurity issues as those issues relate to the 
        safety of rail fixed guideway public transportation systems.''.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.